THE THREE STRINGS




[Illustration: “Hurry, hurry,” she gasped, as a white-robed figure
stepped inside her room.
                                                               Page 262]




  THE
  THREE STRINGS

  BY
  NATALIE SUMNER LINCOLN
  AUTHOR OF “THE MOVING FINGER,” “I SPY,” “THE NAMELESS MAN,” “C. O. D.,”
  “THE TREVOR CASE,” “THE OFFICIAL CHAPERON,” ETC.

  [Illustration]

  ILLUSTRATED BY
  CHARLES L. WRENN

  D. APPLETON AND COMPANY
  NEW YORK        LONDON
  1918




  COPYRIGHT, 1918, BY
  D. APPLETON AND COMPANY

  Printed in the United States of America




  TO
  MRS. THEODORE VERNON BOYNTON
  OF WASHINGTON, D. C.

  WHOSE LOYAL AFFECTION HAS BEEN MINE SINCE CHILDHOOD,
  I SEND THIS PROBLEM, IN FULL ASSURANCE
  THAT SHE WILL PULL THE RIGHT “STRING.”




ACKNOWLEDGMENT


To Alain Campbell White, Esq., of Litchfield, Conn., the Author is
indebted for kindly assistance in working out a chess problem which his
expert knowledge of chess made feasible.

The Author desires also to express her appreciation of the assistance
of Dr. Alexander J. Anderson of Waterbury, Conn., whose help in solving
a “knotty” problem was but one of many acts of kindness.




CONTENTS


  CHAPTER                                      PAGE

      I. THE FIRST MOVE                           1

     II. COMPLICATIONS                            9

    III. UNIDENTIFIED                            22

     IV. A QUESTION OF TIME                      39

      V. THE “ACE”                               53

     VI. DEVELOPMENTS                            70

    VII. THE FIFTH MAN                           85

   VIII. FURTHER DEVELOPMENTS                   100

     IX. THE TELEGRAM                           113

      X. “SEDITIOUS UTTERANCES”                 126

     XI. CONFLICTING CLUES                      143

    XII. THE CALL                               162

   XIII. THE BLOTTED PAGE                       177

    XIV. BURNHAM PREFERS CHARGES                188

     XV. “THE BEST LAID PLANS”                  204

    XVI. IN THE LIMELIGHT                       220

   XVII. CAMOUFLAGE                             236

  XVIII. “THE HANDWRITING ON THE WALL”          250

    XIX. BRIBERY                                264

     XX. IDENTIFICATION                         276

    XXI. UNMASKED                               284

   XXII. THE MISSING DIAGRAMS                   297




LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

                                                      FACING
                                                       PAGE

  “Hurry, hurry,” she gasped, as a white-robed figure
    stepped inside her room            _Frontispiece_

  Step by step she advanced nearer the dead man           12

  He took out Marian’s package of papers and placed
    them in Evelyn’s lap                                  80

  “René,” she blushed hotly, “René loves me”             252




THE THREE STRINGS




CHAPTER I

THE FIRST MOVE


EVELYN PRESTON ran lightly up the steps of her home and inserting
her latch-key in the vestibule door, pushed it open just as the
taxi-driver, following more slowly with many an upward glance at the
blind-closed windows, reached her side.

“Put the suit case down,” she directed. “I’ll have the front door
opened by the time you get the trunk here.”

The cool if somewhat stale air of the closed house which met Evelyn as
she stepped across the threshold of the open door was refreshing after
the glare of the asphalt pavements, for Washington was experiencing one
of the hot waves which come in late September and make that month one
to be avoided in the Capital City.

Evelyn, intent on calling a servant, paused midway in the large hall
as the taxi-driver’s bulky figure blocked the light in the front
doorway. Without waiting for directions he lowered her motor trunk from
his shoulders and stood it against the wall.

“Shall I leave it here, Miss?” he inquired.

Evelyn, busily engaged in searching for change in her purse, nodded
affirmatively, and the man propped himself against the door jamb and
waited for his pay.

“Thank you, Miss,” he exclaimed a moment later, his politeness
stimulated by the generous tip which accompanied Evelyn’s payment of
the taxi fare. “Would you like me to carry your trunk upstairs?”

“No; the butler will take it up, thank you.” Evelyn’s gesture of
dismissal was unmistakable, and the man hitched uncomfortably at his
cap, glanced furtively up the hall and then back at Evelyn who, totally
unconscious of his scrutiny, stood impatiently waiting for him to go.
He opened his mouth, but if he intended to address her again he thought
better of it, and with a mumbled word banged out of the front door.

Evelyn turned at once and sped to the back stairs, but call as she did,
no servant responded and the blind-closed windows made the passageway
dark and unfriendly. With an impatient exclamation Evelyn returned
to the front hall; the servants had evidently not arrived from the
seashore to open the house for her.

She stopped only long enough to push her trunk into the billiard room
just off the hall and pick up her suit case, then she went rapidly
upstairs to her bedroom which, in its summer covered furnishings,
looked very inviting to her tired eyes. Four nights in a sleeper and
three extra hours added to the tedium of her journey from the west by a
hot-box which had delayed her train’s arrival in Washington, had made
her long for home comforts.

Going over to the windows Evelyn drew up the blinds and opening the
sashes thrust back the shutters, then, tossing off her hat and coat as
she moved about her bedroom, she finally jerked open the suit case and
tumbled about its contents until she found the garments she sought. In
doing so she unearthed a letter from her mother, and she smiled as her
eyes caught the words:

“I am sending the servants to the city on the fifteenth, which gives
them a day to open the house and have it aired before you get there.
Now be sure and reach Washington on the sixteenth. Your Father will be
very angry if----”

The remainder of the sentence was on the opposite sheet, but Evelyn
did not trouble to read further; instead her slender fingers made
mince-meat of the letter and as the torn pieces fluttered to the floor
she sighed involuntarily.

Her mother, with her usual inconsistency, had evidently not troubled
to study time-tables in deciding that her daughter could not reach
Washington by the 15th, and in her own mind Evelyn wondered if the
servants would be dispatched from Chelsea in time to reach there before
night. The importance of time figured very little in Mrs. Burnham’s
indolent sheltered life; her contention that prompt people wasted a
great deal of time was frequently borne out by those who waited in
impotent wrath for her to keep her engagements.

Evelyn changed into her dressing gown and then, sometimes colliding
against furniture in the darkened house, made her way through her
mother’s bedroom and boudoir, her step-father’s suite of rooms and into
the library which opened from his bedroom, pulling up window shades and
letting in fresh air and sunshine as she went. Back once more in her
own room she tested the electric lights and was thankful to find the
current turned on; apparently Mrs. Ward, her mother’s housekeeper, had
attended to some of the details of moving back into their city house.

Encouraged by her success with the electricity, Evelyn tried the water
in the bathroom and finding it running, filled the tub and with the
aid of an electric plunger, soon luxuriated in a hot bath. But upon
emerging she did not immediately complete her toilet, the comfortable
lounge exerted too great an appeal to her weary muscles, and taking a
silk quilt from a nearby cedar chest she settled down amid soft pillows
and was soon in dreamless slumber.

Some hours later Evelyn awoke. It took her several minutes to recall
where she was as she sat up rubbing her sleepy eyes. Her windows faced
the west and the afternoon sunshine filled every cranny of the room.
Evelyn consulted her watch--fifteen minutes past two. With a bound she
was on her feet and a second later was dressing in haste, her actions
stimulated by pangs of hunger. She had eaten only a modest breakfast
on the train, counting upon a hearty luncheon at home. She paused long
enough in her dressing to go to the telephone in the library and call
up several friends, only to be told by Central that the telephones she
wanted had been disconnected for the summer.

A trifle discouraged Evelyn returned to her bedroom and resumed
her dressing more slowly. Whom could she get to go out to tea with
her?--Marian Van Ness. Evelyn brightened, but paused on her way to
the library; what use to telephone, Marian was probably at the State
Department and would not leave there until five o’clock. She could
get her to dine with her at the Shoreham, but in the meantime she was
exceedingly hungry and to wait until seven o’clock--

Evelyn picked up her hat and then laid it down again as an idea
occurred to her. Why not forage about the kitchen for eatables? The
idea appealed to her the more she considered it. If the servants did
not arrive she could go for Marian, whose apartment house was around
the corner, and they could dine together; for the present a cup of tea
and a few crackers would stay her appetite.

A few seconds later Evelyn was speeding down the staircase on her
way to the kitchen. A visit to the butler’s pantry brought to light
a package of crackers concealed in a tin box and a canister of her
mother’s favorite Orange-Peko tea. Tucking her treasures under her
arm Evelyn sought the kitchen and there to her delight found on
investigation that she could light the big gas range. It took her but a
moment to fill the water kettle, and humming a song she continued her
researches in the orderly kitchen. An unopened jar of peanut butter and
another of snappy cheese turned up on one of the shelves, and gathering
plates and cooking utensils together she was soon enjoying toasted
cheese and crackers and a delicious cup of tea.

She was about to refill her cup when the silence of the sunny kitchen
was broken by the imperative ringing of the bell. With a joyful
exclamation Evelyn rose to her feet--the servants had come at last. As
she started for the hall door she came face to face with the room-bell
register--the indicator moved slowly downward and stopped at the
printed word: “Library.”

Evelyn stared at the indicator in perplexity. Pshaw! the register was
out of order; it was the front door bell which had rung. Stopping long
enough to turn off the gas burning in the range she hastened upstairs
to the front door, only to find the vestibule empty. She stepped out on
the doorstep and glanced up and down, but except for a motor vanishing
around the corner, the street was deserted.

Considerably perturbed Evelyn reëntered the house, and it was some
seconds before she mounted the staircase to the second floor. Her
lagging footsteps were accelerated by the sudden thought that perhaps
her step-father had returned and gone straight to his room and,
supposing from the opened windows that the servants were downstairs,
had rung for the butler. He always carried his latch-key; but her
mother had mailed her his latch-key!

Evelyn’s hand fell from the portières to her side and she drew back,
then, suppressing her growing nervousness, she parted the portières and
stepped into the library. She had advanced half across the room before
she became aware that a stranger sat half facing her near the great
stone fireplace.

Evelyn retreated precipitously; then, gathering her wits, she demanded
a trifle breathlessly:

“Who are you?”

No reply.

“How did you get here?”

Silence.

“What do you want?”

Her question remained unanswered; and anger conquering her fright,
Evelyn stepped up to the chair and for the first time obtained a full
view of the stranger’s ashen face and wide-staring eyes. Instinctively
she bent nearer and her hand sought his pulseless wrist; its icy chill
struck her with terror. With one horrified look into the dead eyes she
fled from the room.




CHAPTER II

COMPLICATIONS


EVELYN never knew how she reached the front door, but as she dashed
out into the vestibule she almost fell into the arms of a tall neatly
dressed woman standing on the doorstep. For a breathless second she
clung to the newcomer in silence.

“Matilda!” Only in moments of stress did Evelyn ever address her
mother’s housekeeper by her first name. “Thank God you are here!”

Mrs. Ward gazed at her in alarm. “What’s wrong, Miss Evelyn?” she
asked. “Come inside, Miss,” coaxingly, growing conscious that Evelyn
was swaying upon her feet. Supporting the half fainting girl, she led
her into the billiard room which opened from the hall to the right of
the front door. Once in the room Evelyn collapsed on the nearest chair.

“Oh, don’t go,” she begged as Mrs. Ward stepped toward the hall. “Don’t
leave me.”

“Only for a moment, Miss; I left my bag outside the house,” and Mrs.
Ward, disentangling her skirt from Evelyn’s clutching fingers,
disappeared into the hall to return shortly with a glass of water in
one hand and her bag in the other. She dropped the latter on Evelyn’s
trunk as she entered the room.

“Take a sip of water, Miss Evelyn,” she said, retaining her hold of
the glass as Evelyn’s attempts to take it in her shaking hand proved
futile. “Are Jones and the cook here?”

“No.” Evelyn was only equal to monosyllables.

“They haven’t come!” Mrs. Ward looked shocked. “All the servants were
to leave Atlantic City this morning on the first train. No wonder you
were frightened, Miss Evelyn, all alone in this big house.”

“But I was not alone.” Evelyn pushed aside the empty glass; she felt
refreshed by the cold water and the presence of Mrs. Ward restored her
to some degree of composure. “There’s a dead man upstairs!”

The glass slipped from Mrs. Ward’s hand and broke on the highly
polished floor.

“Are you mad?” Mrs. Ward spoke more roughly than she realized, and
Evelyn’s angry flush caused her to modify her tone to its customary
civility. “Are you in earnest, Miss Evelyn?” Evelyn nodded vigorously,
and Mrs. Ward’s comely face paled. “It’s--It’s not Mr. Burnham?”

“No; I have never seen the man before.”

Mrs. Ward stared blankly at Evelyn, then roused herself. “Hadn’t I
better go and investigate?” she asked. “You may be mistaken, Miss;
perhaps the man’s only asleep.”

Evelyn shivered. “Men don’t sleep with their eyes open,” she said
dully, rising. “I’m coming with you,” and she quickened her pace to
keep up with Mrs. Ward as the latter led the way upstairs to the
library. Mrs. Ward faltered just inside the room as her eyes fell on
the quiet figure near the fireplace; then, repressing all emotion, she
strode over to the figure and bent, as Evelyn had done, and placed
her hand on the dead man’s wrist. When she turned back to Evelyn,
who lingered near the doorway, her face rivaled the young girl’s in
whiteness.

“I’d better go for Dr. Hayden.” She mumbled the words so that she was
forced to repeat them before Evelyn understood her.

“Try the telephone,” the latter suggested, “that’s quicker.”

Mrs. Ward glanced shrinkingly at the telephone stand which stood almost
at the dead man’s elbow and shook her head.

“I’d better go,” she reiterated obstinately.

“Nonsense, use the branch telephone in the pantry.” Evelyn’s customary
cool-headedness returned as she saw the housekeeper becoming
demoralized. “Hurry, don’t waste any more time,” she added, and
obedient to the stronger will, Mrs. Ward hastened from the room.

Evelyn stayed by the doorway in indecision, half inclined to accompany
the housekeeper downstairs, but an attraction she could not conquer
drew her toward the fireplace, and step by step she advanced nearer the
dead man until only a chess table separated them. Sinking into a chair
in front of the table she stared at the body for a long moment, then
hastily averted her eyes. It was the first time she had seen death and
its majesty over-awed even her terror.

A clock chiming the quarter aroused her and she mechanically looked
at her wrist watch--a quarter of five. Had only two hours and a half
passed since she had entered the library to telephone to Marian
Van Ness? The time had seemed interminable, and she waited in ever
increasing nervousness for the housekeeper’s return, as the clock
ticked off minute after minute with maddening regularity.

Finally a murmur of voices coming nearer roused Evelyn and with a
subdued exclamation she moved forward to meet Doctor Lewis Hayden, who
a second later appeared in the library, Mrs. Ward at his heels.

[Illustration: Step by step she advanced nearer the dead man....]

“Has Mrs. Ward explained?” she demanded as Hayden clasped her
outstretched hand.

“Only that----” Hayden stopped speaking as his eyes fell on the dead
man. Striding forward he made a brief inspection before turning to the
silent women. “Tell my chauffeur to go at once for Doctor Penfield,
Mrs. Ward,” he directed and there was that in his manner which caused
the housekeeper to move with even more than her customary rapidity.
As she disappeared between the portières, Lewis Hayden turned his
attention to Evelyn.

“A dose of aromatic spirits of ammonia will make you feel better,” he
said kindly, noting the girl’s strained expression, and as he spoke he
opened his emergency kit and poured the medicine in a glass. “Just add
a little water to this,” he supplemented, “and then go and lie down.
I’ll wait and see Coroner Penfield and we will take charge of affairs
for you.”

Evelyn sighed with relief as she took the medicine. “Oh, thank you,
doctor,” she exclaimed, “if you will just----” She stopped speaking
as the portières were pulled back and Mrs. Ward, looking very much
agitated, ushered in a tall man whose travel-stained appearance did not
detract from his air of distinction. Evelyn stared at him as if unable
to believe her eyes.

“Mr. Maynard!” she exclaimed. “Dear Mr. Maynard! Where did you come
from?”

Dan Maynard clasped her eagerly extended hand in both of his.

“Just back from France,” he explained, and at the sound of his voice
Hayden’s memory quickened; its charm across the footlights had lured
him often to the theater to see the man whose fame as an actor was
international. “I wired Mr. Burnham----”

“Beg pardon,” Mrs. Ward insinuated herself into the little group by
the door. “Your telegram was forwarded to Chelsea, Mr. Maynard, and
Mrs. Burnham told me to prepare a bedroom for you, sir. It would have
been ready but for this----,” and the housekeeper’s gesture toward the
tragic figure by the fireplace completed her sentence.

Maynard stared but before Evelyn could offer any explanation the front
door bell rang loudly and Mrs. Ward hastened to answer it.

“I imagine that is the coroner,” began Hayden, but an exclamation from
Evelyn checked him; in her excitement she had not grasped the use of
the word “Coroner” before Penfield’s name.

“A coroner! Good gracious, doctor, why send for him?”

“Because a sudden death cannot be examined without his presence,”
Hayden explained. “Go and take your medicine, Evelyn.”

Evelyn’s hesitation was brief; she knew Hayden of old and that he did
not permit disobedience from his patients.

“Very well, doctor,” she said submissively. “But first, Mr. Maynard,
this is our family physician, Dr. Hayden,” and as the two men silently
shook hands, she added as she moved toward the door leading into her
step-father’s bedroom, “I’ll be back shortly.”

Hayden’s surmise that Penfield had arrived proved correct, and the
coroner, listening attentively to Mrs. Ward’s jumbled remarks as he
mounted the staircase, went at once into the library and greeted Hayden.

“Apoplexy, Hayden?” he inquired, going toward the fireplace. “Ah, your
aid here----” and Hayden joined him.

Maynard stood an interested spectator by the door, uncertain whether he
was expected to go or stay, but as neither physician paid the slightest
attention to him, he decided to remain. A sudden movement of the
coroner’s toward the windows caused him to step forward and pull the
inside Holland shades up to the top. A grunt of approval from Penfield
greeted the additional light and Maynard decided to tuck back with the
aid of chairs the heavy brocaded curtains which, like the portières,
were covered with cretonne to protect them in the summer months, until
the large room was filled with the remaining daylight.

The room, wainscoted in Flemish oak with open beams across the high
ceiling, was never very bright as its massive furnishings were
somber in shade and absorbed the light. It was a very livable room,
however, and had the air of being much occupied even with most of its
bric-a-bric put away for the summer. The high-backed carved oak chairs
and great leather covered lounges all looked comfortable, and the large
center table, smoking stands, and card tables gave an added air of
hospitality.

Suddenly Coroner Penfield rose from his knees beside the dead man and
laid down several instruments on the chess table. He then glanced
narrowly up and down the room, his glance resting finally on Dan
Maynard, of whose presence he had been until then apparently unaware.

“I must make some inquiries, Hayden,” he said. “Who is this gentleman?”

“Mr. Maynard--I beg your pardon,” Hayden straightened up and faced
about. “Didn’t I introduce you?” he added as the actor approached. “Mr.
Maynard only arrived here a few minutes before you, Penfield. I’ll call
Mrs. Ward, the housekeeper.”

“She doesn’t know anything,” declared Evelyn who, entering unperceived
a few minutes before, had overheard the coroner’s request. “I came back
to tell you all about everything.”

“Do you feel equal to it?” asked Hayden, pushing forward a chair.
“Hadn’t you better wait, Evelyn? You have been under a fearful strain
to have your friend die----” He paused in his rapid speech as if at
a loss for words and Maynard, with intuitive quickness, detected the
physician’s disquietude under his calm professional manner. “--your
friend die so suddenly,” Hayden finished.

Evelyn did not heed the concluding remark; but one word had caught her
attention.

“Friend! He was no friend of mine,” she declared. “I never saw the man
before.”

Penfield bent forward eagerly. “What’s this--a stranger, you say? Are
you quite sure, Miss Preston? People’s appearance sometimes alters
after death. Please look at him closely.”

Evelyn hesitated and glanced at Hayden who signed to her to approach.
Obediently she stepped forward and studied the motionless figure which
had been pushed back by Penfield into much the same position it had
occupied when Evelyn first discovered it. She judged the man to have
been about thirty-six or forty years of age, and noted particularly
the brilliant blue of his eyes against the pallor of his skin. He was
clean shaven, and his under jaw was thrust forward at an obstinate
angle, but whether that was its natural position or the jaw had dropped
forward after death Evelyn was incapable of knowing.

“I never saw the man before,” she stated finally.

“Ah! Then how came it that he was admitted to your library?” asked
Penfield before Hayden could speak.

“I really don’t know.” Evelyn looked puzzled. “I presume he got in like
any other burglar.”

“Burglar!” Penfield started and turning, stared again at the dead man.
“Burglars don’t as a rule dress so well; besides, his hands----” He
leaned over and held up the man’s limp right hand, turning it over so
that all could see the long tapering fingers and well cared for nails.

Maynard studied the hand intently; he had seen its type when traveling
among the silent and secretive peoples of the Orient and occasionally
met the same type among the deep thinkers and analytical men and women
of Europe who rarely forget an injury but are patient with the patience
of power conveyed by knowledge and mysticism.

“His finger-prints may give us some clue to his identity,” added
Coroner Penfield, laying down the hand. “In the meantime----”

“Why not examine the man’s pockets?” suggested Maynard practically.

Penfield carried out the suggestion with a deftness which won the
actor’s admiration, but all he brought to light was a piece of string.

“Every pocket empty,” he announced. “And apparently not even a
coat-label--strange!” He cast a penetrating look at Evelyn. “Why did
you not notify us sooner, Miss Preston?”

“Sooner?” echoed Evelyn. “I started to go for Dr. Hayden after
finding this--this----” Evelyn choked; she was very near to tears and
Penfield’s grave manner was beginning to impress her unfavorably.
“I met Mrs. Ward, our housekeeper, on the front steps, brought her
up here, and then sent her to telephone to Dr. Hayden. That hasn’t
been more than an hour ago,” turning for confirmation to Hayden who
nodded his agreement. “I only arrived in Washington this morning, Dr.
Penfield, and--and--I was all alone in the house. He--he,”--pointing to
the dead man--“he might have murdered me if he hadn’t died of apoplexy.”

Hayden, who had followed Evelyn’s statements with ever increasing
interest, looked a trifle nonplussed as he glanced at his colleague who
was winding the string, taken from the dead man’s pocket, in and out
among his fingers.

“You say you arrived at the house this morning, Miss Preston,” began
Penfield slowly, “and you did not enter this library until this
afternoon.”

“I did, too,” contradicted Evelyn. “I came in here in the morning and
opened the blinds; I did the same thing all over this floor so as to
air the house, and----” She added as Hayden started to interrupt her,
“I came into this room again about half past two----”

“And you sent for us about five o’clock,” commented Penfield dryly.
“Your remarks are inconsistent--you previously stated you sent for us
at once on finding the body----”

“The body was not here at half past two,” declared Evelyn.

“It wasn’t!” chorused the two physicians, while Maynard looked eagerly
at Evelyn and back at them.

“Come, Miss Preston,” began Penfield. “You must be mistaken.”

“I am not,” Evelyn’s foot came down with a stamp. “I used that
telephone there, right by the fireplace; do you suppose I could have
done so and not become aware that a dead man was sitting by my elbow? I
tell you the man wasn’t dead then.”

The silence which followed was broken by Coroner Penfield.

“Miss Preston,” he stated quietly. “That man has been dead at least
twelve hours.”

Evelyn stared at him in growing horror. “Dead--twelve hours!” she
gasped. “Then who rang the library bell at four o’clock?”

They gazed at each other, but before any one could speak the sound of
a heavy fall caused them to wheel about--Mrs. Ward had fainted just
inside the portières of the room.




CHAPTER III

UNIDENTIFIED


THE Maître d’hôtel, returning from an inspection of the main dining
room, paused in Peacock Alley to view with an appraising eye the men
and women who promenaded up and down or sat about, some waiting with
good grace for their chance to find a disengaged table in one of the
dining rooms while others, outwardly rebellious, expressed their candid
opinion of Washington in war-time. Suddenly the Frenchman’s air of
polite indifference changed to one of alertness as a man pushed his
way through the throng and stopped near the door of the Palm Room. The
Maître d’hôtel was at his elbow instantly.

“Ah, Monsieur Burnham, welcome, most welcome,” he said. “Have you had a
nice summaire?”

“Henri!” Peter Burnham surrendered his hat and cane to a waiting
attendant. “The summer has been so-so,” he added, turning back to the
Frenchman. “I am waiting for Mr. James Palmer; have you seen him this
evening?”

“But yes.” The Maître d’hôtel wormed his way into the Palm Room and
beckoned to Burnham to follow. “There, in that corner across the room;
this way,” and he darted among the tables and the palms, Burnham
following closely, until he reached a small table set for two persons,
and pulled out the unoccupied chair.

Palmer looked up from the menu he was studying and greeted Burnham with
warmth.

“Have a Martini?” he inquired as their waiter hurried up and the Maître
d’hôtel went back to his post in the doorway.

“Yes, and make it dry,” cautioned Burnham to the waiter. “And hurry it
along. I am worn out,” he added to his host.

Palmer glanced at him in concern. “You don’t look very fit,” he
admitted. “Had a bad trip down?”

“Devilish! Our train was sidetracked for hours waiting to let troop
trains pass; nothing to eat----” Burnham paused to empty his glass of
ice water. “At our rate of progress I was willing to believe we’d gone
back to stage-coach days, but Washington is an eye-opener; I had no
idea this place swarmed with people.”

“Washington’s ‘sleepy hollow’ has had a rude awakening,” remarked
Palmer cynically. “I don’t mind confessing I am weary of seeing
consequential looking people dash about Washington with an air of
having arrived just in time to save the Nation. Washington _was_ on the
map before Uncle Sam started on this war-path.”

Burnham laughed. “I confess I share your outraged feelings; had to wait
interminably at the Union Station before I could telephone you.” He
stopped to take the cocktail at that instant placed before him. “Here’s
how!”

His host raised his glass in acknowledgment and sipped his Martini with
due enjoyment.

“Better have another,” he suggested as Burnham set down his empty
glass, “against the time Washington goes dry.”

“I’ve stocked up my wine cellar with that in view,” admitted Burnham
and stopped to watch some newcomers who had taken possession of the
nearest table. “I suppose I can get a room here for the night in case I
find the servants haven’t arrived to open our house.”

“My dear Burnham!” Palmer looked actually shocked. “Empty rooms are
unheard of in Washington.”

“How about club chambers?”

“Nothing doing; they are even sleeping in the bathtubs there,” laughed
Palmer, and stopped speaking as the orchestra in the mezzanine gallery
commenced to play and, dinner arriving at that instant, the two men,
except for monosyllabic remarks now and then, completed the meal in
silence. As Burnham took one of the cigars proffered him he pushed
aside his dessert plate, planted his elbows on the table, and leaned
forward.

“I can’t understand why people want an orchestra playing while they
eat,” he grumbled. “I don’t enjoy having to shout when I talk.”

“Well, I suggested dining at the club----”

“I know, I know; but I forgot about the beastly orchestra,” he paused
to puff abstractedly at his cigar.

“What’s the trouble, Burnham?” asked Palmer quickly. “Is your wife ill?”

“No, no; it’s----” He bent nearer his companion, then paused to shoot a
glance over his shoulder and his confidences remained unspoken. “Jove!
Evelyn!” he ejaculated. “She wasn’t due here until to-morrow.”

Palmer, but half catching his remark, followed his gaze and saw Evelyn
Preston and her friend Marian Van Ness just taking their seats at a
table some distance away. Palmer pushed back his chair preparatory to
rising.

“Bless my soul, Burnham,” he exclaimed impulsively. “Why didn’t you
tell me Evelyn was with you? We could have waited dinner for her
and Mrs. Van Ness. Here--” beckoning to their waiter--“tell those
ladies----”

“Wait,” broke in Burnham. “We’ve finished, Palmer; suppose we go over
and sit at their table, but there’s no hurry, man.”

Burnham’s tone was so petulant that Palmer, curbing his impatience to
be with Evelyn, subsided in his seat and gazed at him in speculative
silence. What had come over easy-going, absent-minded Peter Burnham?
Six weeks had passed since his visit to Burnham Lodge at Chelsea, and
that the six weeks had not agreed with Burnham was plain to be seen;
his cheeks were a bad color and he seemed to Palmer’s appraising eye
to have shrunk in his clothes. A certain nervous tremor in the hand
holding his cigar also was noticeable, and Palmer wracked his brain
to recall some incident of his stay at Burnham Lodge which might give
him the key to Burnham’s altered demeanor. But to the best of his
recollection all had been harmonious, and he had been rather a captious
guest, for his prediction that the marriage would not turn out a happy
one had put him on the alert for matrimonial discords.

Palmer had not been alone in predicting a disastrous ending to the
marriage, for all Washington had heard first with incredulity and then
laughter of the engagement of the wealthy widow, Lillian Preston, to
Peter Burnham, a man considerably her junior, who had been uniformly
unfortunate in every business venture he had undertaken. Peter had
his good points, his friends contended, and as one of them remarked at
the wedding which had followed swiftly upon the announcement of the
engagement, his wife could keep him in the style he had been accustomed
to before his final financial venture had landed him in bankruptcy.

That Mrs. Burnham was honestly devoted to her husband and admired him,
Palmer had come to believe. She was not a woman given to concealing
her thoughts, her habit of plain speech frequently landing her in
hot water. Peter Burnham was well read, polished in manner, a born
_raconteur_, and a devoted chess player; he cared very little for
out-door sports and his greatest hardship was being dragged to
horseshows of which his wife was inordinately fond, having inherited
her love for horses from her Kentucky ancestors.

Society had speculated as to how Mrs. Burnham’s young daughter and only
child would take her mother’s second marriage, but as Evelyn was then
away at boarding school, society found little to build gossip upon.
Evelyn’s début the winter before had revived interest in the subject,
and when she left Washington early in the spring for an indefinite
visit in the West, tongues had wagged without, however, getting any
satisfaction from Mr. and Mrs. Burnham who went placidly on their way,
being entertained and entertaining in their hospitable home in the
fashionable Northwest.

The situation had decidedly piqued Palmer’s interest, for as intimate
as was his footing in the Burnham home he had never been able to decide
Evelyn’s status in the family circle; she was frequently and pleasantly
alluded to in conversation, but that was all. He had made no secret
of his desire to marry Evelyn, and that both husband and wife favored
his courtship he had ample reason to believe, though neither to his
knowledge had outwardly espoused his cause to Evelyn.

When called on the telephone about six o’clock that afternoon Burnham
had given Palmer to understand that he was alone in Washington; and yet
his young step-daughter was also in the city. It was of course possible
that Evelyn was visiting Marian Van Ness. Palmer frowned; he disliked
few people, but he most heartily disliked brilliant Marian Van Ness;
their natures were too utterly foreign for them ever to be congenial.

Palmer transferred his attention from Burnham to the latter’s
step-daughter and her companion, both of whom were busily engaged in
discussing the menu. Marian Van Ness’ dark beauty was an effectual foil
for Evelyn’s curly yellow hair and blue eyes. The entrance of both
girls, for Marian appeared little more, in their smart summer costumes
had attracted admiring low voiced comment from the other diners in
their vicinity, and several friends and acquaintances had looked up to
bow or wave their hands to them, for Marian was extremely popular in
society. When financial reverses had obliged her to find employment
upon her return to her native city after her divorce, she had acted as
social secretary for several Cabinet officers’ wives and through their
influence had received an appointment in the State Department five
years before.

Suddenly Palmer stirred in his chair. “I hardly think Mrs. Van Ness
is a staid enough chaperon for Evelyn,” he remarked. “Suppose we join
them,” and leaving Burnham no option in the matter he pushed back his
chair and rose.

Evelyn, whose healthy young appetite had asserted itself, in spite of
the tragic happenings of that afternoon, had been chiefly occupied in
selecting the most tempting dishes in the menu, and it was not until an
exclamation from Marian drew her attention to her step-father coming
toward them, Palmer’s big proportions towering behind him, that she
knew of his presence in the dining room. At that moment the diners
at an intervening table left their seats, thereby impeding Burnham’s
progress, and only Marian caught Evelyn’s low exclamation and noticed
her change of color.

“Are you going to faint?” she asked. “Drink some water, dear.”

Instead Evelyn laid trembling fingers on her cool palm.

“Don’t forget your promise,” she pleaded. “Remember, you are going to
stay with me....”

“I will.” Marian’s firm hand-clasp was reassuring. “Can’t you tell me
more of what took place this afternoon?”

“Not now.” Evelyn straightened up and turned to meet her step-father
and, with a poise and air of cordiality which Marian secretly
applauded, she held out her hand in greeting to Burnham and then to
Palmer. “When did you get here?” she inquired as the men took the
chairs proffered by attentive waiters, after first speaking to Marian.

“I might ask the same of you,” retorted Burnham. “You were not due here
until to-morrow.”

“I found I could take an earlier train,” responded Evelyn. “Why didn’t
you and Mother come up to the house when you arrived?”

“Your mother didn’t come down with me,” answered Burnham, waving away
the waiter’s offer of a menu. “She is in New York.”

“Oh!” The ejaculation slipped from Evelyn followed by another: “Oh,
waiter, don’t remove that place,” as the servant started to clear away
the extra silver and glass. “I am expecting another guest,” she added
as Palmer, thinking she did not know that he had dined, imagined she
referred to him and started to decline.

“Another guest?” questioned Burnham and his manner sharpened. “Whom do
you mean?”

Evelyn shot a half resentful glance at him, then curbing her hot temper
which his censorious air and manner invariably aroused, she answered
cheerily. “None other than your old friend, Dan Maynard.”

“Maynard in town!” exclaimed Burnham in pleased surprise.

“Not only in town but he is stopping at our house,” rattled on Evelyn,
noting with some surprise that Marian had permitted her “Honey-dew”
melon to be taken away uneaten. “The servants are putting the house in
order.”

“Upon my word!” Burnham polished his eye glasses and looked through
them at Evelyn. “Where is Mrs. Ward?”

“Ill,” tersely. “Dr. Hayden is looking after her; and Marian is coming
back to help me take care of her.”

Burnham stared at his step-daughter. “Mrs. Ward ill--what next? When
did you and she arrive in Washington, Evelyn?”

Palmer, stopping his exchange of small talk with Marian, glanced at
Evelyn and her expression caused his interest to quicken. Evelyn was
not used to subterfuge and the look she had favored her step-father
with was indicative of her feelings.

“We didn’t come together,” she explained. “Mrs. Ward only arrived this
afternoon, while I reached the house----” She stopped to help herself
to beefsteak and several vegetables.

“Yes,” prompted Burnham, and his restless glance passed from one
companion to the other. “You reached----” A hand was laid on his
shoulder and Maynard cut into the conversation.

“Found at last,” laughed the actor. “Evelyn, you told me to meet you at
the Shoreham and I have been waiting there until it dawned on me to try
this hotel. How are you, Burnham, and Palmer, too,” shaking hands as
the men rose.

“Marian, have you met Mr. Maynard--Mrs. Van Ness?” asked Evelyn, and
Maynard turned to encounter a pair of dark brown eyes raised to him
in earnest appeal. The next instant Marian’s hand was taken in a warm
clasp and slowly released as Palmer made room for Maynard to sit
between them.

“My wife will be delighted to know you have arrived in Washington,”
said Burnham. “She was overjoyed when your telegram came stating you
might get here any moment. What brings you back to this country,
Maynard?”

“War work,” began Maynard. “No, no soup,” he broke off to say to the
waiter. “Bring me whatever Miss Preston has ordered. Palmer, I hear you
have your hands full with government contracts for erecting temporary
office buildings here and at cantonments.”

“All architects are busy these days,” replied Palmer, accepting another
cigar from Burnham. “In fact every one is busy; I imagine you have your
hands full at the State Department, Mrs. Van Ness.”

Marian, directly addressed, looked up from the bread pellets she was
arranging in a neat pile before her. “Well rather, we work night and
day.”

“It must be a terrific strain,” acknowledged Maynard. “So much
responsibility rests in the State Department.” There was a haunting
quality in Maynard’s voice which, no matter how trivial his remark,
impressed his listeners, and Marian’s heart beat fast as memory of
other scenes rose to torment her, but her manner indicated only polite
attention and after a fraction of a second Maynard continued his
remarks.

“Washington is a changed city,” he stated. “The Shoreham reminded me
particularly of Paris in its military appearance, except that the
uniforms are not worn and faded. By the way, Burnham, among the French
officers I met there was René La Montagne.”

“René!” The startled exclamation escaped Evelyn before she could check
it; and her confusion was so great that she failed to observe the
lowered looks of two of her companions. Burnham and Palmer exchanged
glances, then their eyes dropped to their cigars and they smoked in
silence.

As Evelyn set down her goblet of water a page stopped at her elbow.

“A telephone has just come from your butler, Miss Preston,” he
explained, “to ask you to return home. He said Mrs. Ward was quite ill.”

Evelyn pushed aside her plate. “I’ll go at once,” she announced. “But
the rest of you need not come until later.”

“I have finished.” As she spoke Marian rose and Maynard also tossed
aside his napkin and stood up.

“Wait a minute,” remonstrated Burnham. “We’ll all go with you, Evelyn.
Here, waiter, bring me the check, and, Maynard, engage a touring car
outside, will you?”

Nodding assent, the actor sped on his errand, leaving the others to
follow more slowly. He was fortunate in securing a seven-passenger car,
and Burnham bundled his party into it with small ceremony.

“We are right in your neighborhood,” he said as Palmer drew back, “the
car can leave you after it has taken us home. There’s plenty of room,
Palmer, jump in.”

“Perhaps,” suggested Evelyn, “it would expedite matters to stop for Dr.
Hayden.”

“If he is not at your house I can go for him and bring him right over,”
answered Palmer, and Burnham agreed.

“Good idea,” he said shortly. “I hope I am not crowding you, Evelyn?”
as she shrank against Marian in making room for him on the back seat.

“Oh, no,” she replied and sat silent, grateful for the cool night
air which fanned her cheeks. She had tried to forget the mysterious
tragedy while in the hotel; had even barely mentioned it to Marian
when she picked her up at her apartment to take her out to dinner, but
the sudden summons home had brought it vividly before her. Suddenly
she caught Maynard’s eyes and his cheery smile gave her a sense of
comfort. As the car turned into Connecticut Avenue he leaned forward
and addressed Marian Van Ness.

“Are you warm enough?” he asked solicitously. “You have no extra wrap
and the night air is chilly.”

Marian looked at him then glanced away. “I am very comfortable,” she
murmured.

Palmer, who had chosen to take the vacant seat by the chauffeur in
preference to trusting his weight on one of the small pivot chairs
in the tonneau of the machine, addressed Burnham several times, but
apparently his words were drowned in the rush of wind occasioned by the
speed of the car, for Burnham made no response. A short time later the
car drew up to the curb, and stopped before the Burnham residence.

Maynard was the first out of the machine and turned at once to help
Marian. For a brief second her hand rested lightly on his arm, then
was removed as she sprang to the sidewalk. Evelyn was no less quick
in getting out and, not waiting to see what became of the others, she
caught Marian by the elbow and hurried her into the house and upstairs.

Burnham was slower than the others in leaving the car. “Wait a second,
Palmer,” he said, “I’ll send word if we need Dr. Hayden,” and, turning,
he accompanied Maynard up the steps. His words were overheard by the
anxious faced butler who had been on the outlook for the car and opened
the front door when it first drew up to the curb.

“The doctor’s here, sir,” and Maynard was quick to detect the faint,
very faint trace of accent in the man’s subdued voice.

Burnham faced about and called to Palmer: “Don’t wait, Palmer, thanks;
Hayden is here. See you to-morrow,” and he waved his hand in farewell
as the car moved off.

“Come in the billiard room, Maynard,” he said turning to his companion.
“We might as well have a game until Hayden comes down----”

“Just a moment, sir,” broke in Jones, the butler. “There’s several
gentlemen waiting to see you.”

Burnham halted. “Their names----”

A man standing in the shadow of the drawing room door came forward.

“Detective Mitchell, sir, of the Central Office,” he said politely.
“I was sent to investigate the case of the man found dead here this
afternoon.”

“A man found dead here!” shouted Burnham, stepping backward and
colliding against Maynard. “Who is he?”

“We don’t know,” acknowledged Mitchell. “But we are trying to establish
his identity. Your step-daughter found him in the library.”

Burnham stared at the detective wide-eyed. Suddenly he took out his
handkerchief and mopped his forehead.

“A dead man here!” he ejaculated feebly. “An unknown man?”

“Perhaps if you will step in here you may be able to help us identify
him,” suggested Mitchell. “We have brought the body down into the
billiard room preparatory to taking it to the morgue.”

It seemed almost as if Burnham did not comprehend what the detective
was saying, and but for Maynard’s guiding hand he would not have found
his way into the room. The body lay on the billiard table covered by
a sheet. Stepping forward, Mitchell pulled down the sheet, signing to
Burnham to step nearer, and both he and Maynard watched Burnham as he
bent over the body. After what seemed an interminable time to Maynard,
he straightened up.

“I have no idea who he is,” Burnham stated.




CHAPTER IV

A QUESTION OF TIME


TWENTY-FOUR hours had passed since Evelyn Preston’s discovery of the
dead man, and the Burnham household had returned somewhat to its
normal condition, chiefly through Dr. Hayden’s soothing influence and
sound advice which had proved an effectual check to the servants’
inclination to hysteria, Burnham’s temper, and Evelyn’s nervousness.
Marian Van Ness, in lieu of a trained nurse, had spent the night
with the housekeeper, Mrs. Ward, who had finally quieted down under
the influence of bromides and toward morning slept heavily. In the
few remaining hours Marian had thrown herself on the couch in the
housekeeper’s sitting room and snatched a short nap before going to her
work at the State Department.

To Evelyn the day had seemed never ending; she had gone out for part
of the morning, returned for luncheon, and afterward had attempted to
rest, but she was far too restless to remain long in one place, and
about four o’clock in the afternoon she found herself in the drawing
room gazing moodily out of the window, her knitting needles for once
idle in her lap. The entrance of Jones with the tea roused her from her
contemplation of the closed house of her opposite neighbor across the
street.

“Not many people are back yet, Jones,” she remarked.

“Not in this section, Miss Evelyn,” answered the butler, wheeling
forward the tea-wagon and then going for a nest of tables from which he
extracted the smallest. “Every house is closed hereabouts; it’s sort of
lonesome, Miss, and strange, too, with the business part and the other
streets just packed with people. Has Mr. Burnham returned yet, Miss?”

“I don’t think so.” Evelyn rattled the teacups as she rearranged them.
“Are you quite positive, Jones, that no one called me on the telephone
while I was out this morning?”

“Quite, Miss. I followed your instructions and stayed where I could
hear the telephone bell if it rang; no one called, Miss.”

Jones had made the same answer to the same question at least six times
during the day, but he was too well trained a servant to betray his
curiosity aroused by Evelyn’s absent-minded harping on the subject.
Being of a somewhat morbid tendency he, of all the household, had been
the only one to get some entertainment out of the tragedy. The presence
of the physicians, morgue attendants, and detectives had thrilled him
beyond words; he had never hoped to participate in a humble degree in
what promised to be a mystifying and unusual case of sudden death.

“Dr. Hayden went upstairs to see Mrs. Ward just now,” he said, finding
that Evelyn asked no more questions. She looked up quickly and set down
the tea-pot.

“Is the doctor still here?”

“I think so, Miss.”

“Then run upstairs, Jones, and ask him to stop here for a cup of tea
on his way out, and--eh, just see if Mr. Burnham is in his room or the
library.”

“Very good, Miss Evelyn,” and the butler departed with alacrity. He
had just reached the floor above when he encountered the busy surgeon
hurrying downstairs. Hayden paused only long enough to hear his message
and then continued on his way to the drawing room. Evelyn greeted his
entrance with a warm smile of welcome.

“Thanks, no tea,” he said drawing up a chair. “I will have a glass of
water and some sandwiches. Did you lie down as I advised?”

“Yes, but I couldn’t sleep.” Evelyn’s hand shook as she offered him
the plate of sandwiches and Hayden scanned her with concern.

“Don’t go too long on your nerves, Evelyn,” he cautioned. “Pull up
while you can; rest and quiet are what you need.”

Evelyn moved impatiently. “I’m all right,” she announced obstinately.
“Tell me, doctor, what is the matter with Mrs. Ward?”

“Oh, she is suffering from shock and hysteria; in a day or so she will
be up and about again.” Dr. Hayden took a tea biscuit. “In the meantime
bed is the best place for her.”

“What made her go to pieces?” demanded Evelyn, lowering her voice. “She
is a strong healthy woman and in the three years she has been with us I
have never known her to have a day’s illness.”

“Shock,” replied Hayden tersely.

“But--but she only saw the body just as I did,” objected Evelyn. “I
didn’t faint from shock, and I don’t pretend to be as strong as she is.”

Hayden mentally contrasted her slender, delicate appearance and the
housekeeper’s tall angular, raw boned frame and silently agreed with
her; the contrast was too great to admit of argument.

“Tell me, Evelyn,” and he, too, sunk his voice. “Exactly when did Mrs.
Ward join you here yesterday?”

“I found her standing in the vestibule just after I discovered that
poor dead man upstairs; in fact when I was on my way to you. Frankly,”
Evelyn smiled apologetically, “my first impulse was to get out of the
house.”

“A very natural impulse,” said a voice behind them and wheeling about
Hayden saw Maynard approaching. “Sorry to startle you, Evelyn,”
the latter added as she spilled her tea in her sudden jump. “I am
so accustomed to these rubber heels that I forget others are not.
Afternoon, Hayden. How’s your patient?”

“She is much better.” The physician moved back to make room for Maynard
who paused long enough to drag forward a large arm chair and seated
himself next to Evelyn.

“Good,” he exclaimed in response to Hayden’s statement, and at the
sympathetic inflection and the hearty ring in his voice Evelyn
brightened. Maynard’s robust personality brought a touch of the
out-of-doors into the room and dispelled her morbid thoughts. “Burnham
asked me to tell you, Evelyn, that he would not be here for tea. He
is greatly concerned about Mrs. Ward,” Maynard continued, addressing
Hayden. “Seemed to think last night from her rambling talk that she was
in for a long illness, brain fever, or something.”

Hayden smiled. “Nothing like that,” he said. “Mrs. Ward will soon be
on her feet again, little the worse for her upset.”

“I hope so truly,” exclaimed Evelyn, handing Maynard his cup and a
biscuit. “Not only for her sake, but because Mother is so dependent
upon her.”

“Has Mrs. Ward been with you long?” inquired Maynard.

“A little over three years.” Evelyn paused to consider. “She came to
us about six months before Mother’s marriage to Mr. Burnham; I was at
boarding school that winter.”

“What is Mrs. Ward’s nationality?” asked Hayden. “I ask because last
night just before going under the influence of the bromides she used
several phrases which----”

A heavy step on the hardwood floor interrupted the physician and Jones
appeared at Evelyn’s side.

“Detective Mitchell to see you, Miss Evelyn,” he announced and his low
voice held suppressed excitement.

“Oh!” Evelyn gazed at him blankly for a minute, then at her companions;
their presence would surely check any undue inquisitiveness which the
detective might evince. Her step-father had told her that she might
possibly have to appear at the inquest or give her deposition, and
he had cautioned her against making any statement to either of the
detectives who were then in the house. Evelyn, rather startled by his
grave manner, had promptly vanished out of the house by way of the back
door while the men from the Central Office were interviewing Burnham.

“Show him in,” she directed, and as the butler retreated, she looked
at Hayden. “You were saying; oh, yes, now I remember; you asked about
Mrs. Ward--she was born in Switzerland, but I believe has lived in the
United States since she was fifteen years old. Is this Mr. Mitchell?”
raising her voice as a well dressed, pleasant-faced man appeared in the
room.

The detective advanced to the little group and his bow included them
all.

“It is, Miss Preston,” he answered. “I was sorry not to see you this
morning before you left.” Maynard, who had risen on his entrance,
pushed forward his chair for the detective and subsided into one
somewhat in the shadow of the grand piano. Mitchell acknowledged the
courtesy with a word of thanks, then turned to Dr. Hayden.

“The nurse permitted me to see Mrs. Ward for a moment, doctor,” he
began, “but she said she knew nothing of the suicide.”

“Suicide!” ejaculated Evelyn, startled.

“I am quoting Mrs. Ward,” explained Mitchell. “She evidently believes
the stranger’s death to have been a case of suicide.”

“But how can she? She heard me tell Coroner Penfield that some one rang
the library bell about five or six minutes before I found the body, and
according to Coroner Penfield the man had been dead about twelve hours.
Yet the body was not in the library when I was in it earlier in the
afternoon; some one beside myself was in this house,” declared Evelyn
and she came to a breathless and bewildered pause.

“Mrs. Ward heard you make these statements?” asked Mitchell, pencil in
hand, and his memorandum pad balanced on one knee.

“Why, I take it for granted that she did,” Evelyn looked puzzled. “She
fainted just about then and we found her lying inside the library door,
didn’t we, doctor?” Hayden nodded. “Mrs. Ward must have been standing
behind the portières and couldn’t help overhearing our conversation.”

“Then you conclude that your remark about the ringing of the library
bell caused her to faint,” asked Maynard reflectively.

Evelyn wrinkled her brows and rubbed her forehead vigorously. “I don’t
know just what to think,” she acknowledged. “What was there in that
statement to shock her?”

Hayden leaned forward. “Could it be----” He began, then broke off
abruptly, hesitated, and finally addressed Mitchell. “Did you think to
ask Mrs. Ward if she saw any one leave this house as she came up the
street?”

“No, doctor. The fact is,” Mitchell completed the entry he was
making in his note book, “the fact is the nurse would only let me
stay a second in the sick room; she said Mrs. Ward was too ill to be
interviewed now.”

“Then I see nothing for it but to wait until Mrs. Ward is better,”
commented Maynard. “Will there be an inquest, Mitchell?”

“Oh, yes; but not just now.” Mitchell turned his head so as to face
Maynard. “However, our investigation cannot wait; we must sift evidence
to present at the inquest and secure expert testimony.”

Maynard thrust his hands in his pockets and leaned back. “Go slow,
Mitchell,” he cautioned. “Remember the legal warning: ‘All evidence is
made up of testimony, but all testimony is not evidence.’”

“True, sir; but in this case the police have reasonable grounds to
suspect a crime has been committed,” protested Mitchell. “Take Miss
Preston’s testimony for example; she heard the library bell ring, went
upstairs, and found a dead man sitting in the library.”

“Well, he could have rung the bell before drinking the poison,”
retorted Maynard.

“Be reasonable, Mr. Maynard.” The detective’s irritation at Maynard’s
continued questioning showed in his heightened color. “Coroner
Penfield’s testimony proved the man had been dead at least twelve
hours.”

“There you go again with your testimony,” Maynard laughed shortly.
“Come, doctor, at what moment does _rigor mortis_ appear?”

“In a general way, I should say----” Hayden considered before
continuing, “_rigor mortis_ appears from the third to the sixth hour,
and it affects the muscles of the jaw first.” Evelyn shuddered as
sudden unbidden memory of the dead man’s features returned to her.

“And how long does rigidity continue?” demanded Maynard.

“Oh, its duration may average twenty-four to forty-eight hours; it may,
however, last for a few hours only, in other cases it persists for
five, six, or seven days,” answered Hayden.

“And you physicians are prepared to swear from _rigor mortis_ as to the
exact hour the man died?” persisted Maynard.

“We are prepared to swear to nothing of the sort.” Hayden was
commencing to share Mitchell’s irritation at Maynard’s slightly
contemptuous manner. “We can say if rigidity is complete, that death
is recent. Personally, I believe that _rigor mortis_ can teach us
nothing of scientific value in cases of poisoning.”

“But there are other tests to establish the time of death,” broke in
the detective. “There’s the cooling of the body.”

“Don’t!” Evelyn held up a protesting hand. “I can’t forget the icy
chill of his wrist when I touched him.”

“There!” Mitchell looked triumphantly at Hayden. “Doesn’t the body cool
in about twelve hours?”

“It might be said to be quite cold in that time,” replied Hayden. “But
the average time taken in cooling is from fifteen to twenty hours.”

“Your first statement will do for me,” Mitchell jotted down some
figures. “Let me see, Miss Preston, you found the body about half past
three?”

“Yes, or perhaps a few minutes later.”

“Humph! Then it is a safe hypothesis that this man was poisoned between
the hours of two thirty and three thirty yesterday (Tuesday) morning.”

Evelyn shivered. “It would seem so,” she admitted. “Yet where was the
body all that time?”

“And where the murderer?” Maynard’s light tone struck a jarring note
and for once Evelyn ignored him, as she waited for the detective’s
answer.

“Is that Mr. Burnham speaking?” questioned Mitchell, rising hurriedly
as voices reached them from the hall. Evelyn was saved reply by Burnham
walking into the room. He was followed by Coroner Penfield and James
Palmer.

“Here are the men you want, Penfield,” he exclaimed on catching sight
of Hayden and Maynard. “Come and tell us about the inquest.”

Penfield, directly addressed, bowed gravely to Evelyn, who had risen
with the others on their entrance, and then regarded his host with no
lenient eye. That Burnham had been drinking or was under some powerful
drug was evident, and Penfield wished heartily that Evelyn would
retire; he disliked scenes--dead people were one thing, hysterical
women another.

“There has been no inquest yet,” he said. “We are waiting for the
principals in the case to be in condition to attend it before we hold
it.”

“Principals?” Burnham moved nearer and placed an unsteady hand on the
back of a chair. “Who d’ye mean?”

“Mrs. Ward, primarily,” responded Penfield politely. “I understand,
Hayden, she is ill from shock.”

“Yes, she is; nothing very serious, however.”

“Has she a nurse?”

“Yes. Mrs. Duvall.”

“Excellent,” Penfield rubbed his hands together. “I would like to talk
to Nurse Duvall if convenient.”

“Certainly, Penfield,” Hayden made a motion to go but Evelyn was before
him.

“I’ll run up and take her place with Mrs. Ward so she can come down to
see you,” she volunteered and slipped from the room.

Burnham, who had been brooding over the coroner’s remarks, stopped his
restless walk about the room, and thereby collided with James Palmer,
whose bulky form dwarfed Mrs. Burnham’s Empire furniture.

“Why’d you tell me in the hall that you held an inquest and then deny
it in here?” he asked. “Was it because Evelyn was present?”

“No, Mr. Burnham; you have things mixed,” protested Penfield. “I never
mentioned an inquest, but said we had held an autopsy.”

“Ah, and with what results?” asked Hayden. “Or is it not permissible to
tell now?”

“Oh, no; it will be in the morning papers, so I am breaking no
confidence,” Penfield moved nearer the five men who had grouped
themselves about the grand piano. “On submitting the gastric contents
to tests we found the presence of a solution of hydrocyanic acid.”

Maynard broke the ensuing silence. “Hydrocyanic acid,” he repeated.
“Isn’t that a form of prussic acid?”

“Yes; and in a diluted form sometimes given for stomach disorders,”
responded Penfield. At his answer Burnham sat down suddenly as if
stricken. His action was only observed by Hayden and Palmer, Penfield’s
attention being focused upon Maynard who stood gazing at him across the
piano with expressionless face.

“Prussic acid,” he murmured. “Ah, Penfield, that bears out my theory.”

“And what is your theory?” demanded Mitchell quickly, bending forward.

“That the man committed suicide.” Seeing the incredulity with which his
statement was received, Maynard added: “Had the man been murdered he
would instantly have detected the presence of prussic acid--there is no
disguising the taste of bitter almonds.”

“Yes, there is,” retorted Coroner Penfield. “The dose in this instance
was administered in a cordial which in itself contains the same bitter
flavor--cherry brandy.”




CHAPTER V

THE “ACE”


MARIAN VAN NESS detached herself from the stream of people moving
slowly up Seventeenth Street and raced to the opposite curb, only
arriving in time, however, to see the Mt. Pleasant car sail serenely
by. A second, third, and fourth car, their passengers clinging like
ants to steps and even fenders, rounded the curve without stopping and
continued up Connecticut Avenue. In despair Marian turned about and
tucking the papers she carried more securely under her arm, set out for
the Burnham house. She had walked but a third of the way when a man
fell into step with her and looking around she found René La Montagne
by her side.

“Ah! Captain, good afternoon,” she exclaimed. “Did you receive my
telephone message?”

“But yes, madame, and I hurried most quickly to the State Department
only to find you gone.” The French officer reached over and took her
small bundle of papers. “Permit that I carry them,” he said with a
quick courtly bow, and taking possession of the papers he slipped them
inside the pocket of his blue tunic. “Tell me, madame, you have seen
Evelyn,” and Marian read in his eyes the passion even Evelyn’s name
kindled in the gallant officer and her heart throbbed with the quick
and ready sympathy every woman feels for true romance.

“Yes. I am on my way to join Evelyn now,” she answered. “Frankly,
Captain, what has estranged you two?”

La Montagne’s expression grew troubled. “It is not of my making,” he
protested. “My letters remain unanswered----”

“Are you quite certain, Captain, that Evelyn received your letters?”

“But yes,” and as she would have spoken he added rapidly: “When I
cabled that I would arrive shortly in this country, having been
detailed here to instruct in the aviation, and received no reply I
questioned in my mind if Evelyn had received it. Getting leave, I went
to Chelsea and called upon Mr. and Mrs. Burnham----”

“You did!”

“Of course, madame.” La Montagne emphasized his remarks with
gesticulations eminently characteristic of his race. “It was my
misfortune that Evelyn was away, and through some inadvertence my cable
had not been forwarded to her. I had but a few hours in Chelsea, but
upon my return to duty I wrote to Evelyn a letter requiring a reply,
and I sent it by what you call ‘registered’ post.”

“And she answered the letter?”

“No.” In spite of his effort to keep his tone expressionless the
monosyllable betrayed emotion.

“Then you can take it that Evelyn never received your letter,”
exclaimed Marian vehemently.

“You think not!” La Montagne’s face lighted, then fell. “But how
is that within the possible? The return card bore her signature of
receipt.”

Marian stopped and stared at the Frenchman. “Her signature? Are you
quite sure?”

“Oui, madame. I have read her few letters too often to be mistaken,”
retorted La Montagne. “She signed the receipt.”

Marian resumed her walk up the street, a puzzled frown creasing her
forehead. “Where did you send the letter?” she asked.

“To Burnham Lodge, Chelsea, New Jersey.”

Marian quickened her pace to avoid being run down by a speeding
automobile as they crossed Massachusetts Avenue.

“And where was the return receipt card from?” she inquired, a trifle
breathless from her exertions.

“From the same place.” La Montagne fumbled in an inside pocket. “But
view,” he said, holding up a much battered return registered mail
card. Marian took the card and studied the postmark, its date, and
Evelyn’s clear and distinct signature in puzzled silence, then handed
back the card.

“I can only tell you,” she stated slowly, “that Evelyn spent the entire
summer in a convent out West; she has not been at Burnham Lodge for a
year.”

The Frenchman stared at her. “What is it you say?” he exclaimed in
deep astonishment, and Marian repeated her statement. “But it is not
possible!” he ejaculated. “Not possible!”

“Yes it is,” Marian’s face expressed indomitable determination. “And I
can’t have Evelyn’s happiness jeopardized by----” She stopped to wave
her hand to Dr. Hayden, Dan Maynard, and James Palmer, who whirled by
in an automobile. La Montagne, who had raised his hand in salute as the
other men lifted their hats, whirled back to Marian, his face alight.

“Evelyn has not lost her affection; she is still true,” he began
incoherently. “Ah, you have brought me news the most good--let us hurry
to Evelyn.”

“Wait just a moment,” and Marian laid a detaining hand on the impetuous
Frenchman’s arm. “We must sift this out a bit first. How were you
received at Burnham Lodge and by whom?”

“Most cordially by both Mr. and Mrs. Burnham.”

“Was that the first time you had met them?”

“No, oh, no; we have met before in Paris, and I saw Mrs. Burnham when
in New York visiting my American cousins. It was in my cousin’s house
that I met Evelyn.”

“So Evelyn told me.” Marian did not think it necessary to add that
Evelyn had awakened her from her brief nap after her all night vigil in
Mrs. Ward’s room, and poured out her story of love, misunderstanding
and lost letters with such pathos that Marian had promptly championed
her cause with every impulse of her loyal nature. Having met Captain
La Montagne earlier in the summer she had then and there vowed to see
him before the twenty-four hours were over, and if, as she had begun to
suspect, she found that peculiar methods were being used to estrange
the lovers, she decided to try and aid them.

“Captain,” she commenced, “did you see much of Mr. Burnham when he was
in Paris?”

“No.” The Frenchman tempered the brief answer with an explanation. “Mr.
Burnham is some years older and we are not what you might call”--he
paused, searching for a word--“in sympathy.”

“I see.” Marian stared thoughtfully at a passing touring car. “It must
have been fully five years ago, but was there not some story about Mr.
Burnham when he was in Paris?”

There was a pause, and when he spoke, the Frenchman confined himself to
the word: “Yes.”

Marian’s eyes lighted. “My memory sometimes plays me tricks,” she said.
“What were the details?”

La Montagne did not answer at once. “It was not so much,” he began.
“Count André de Sartiges and Mr. Burnham had a dispute at Longchamps,
and the next afternoon André slapped Mr. Burnham’s face in the club.”

“And what happened then?” persisted Marian as he stopped.

“Nothing,” La Montagne shrugged his shoulders. “In France it meant
a duel; but as Mr. Burnham was an American who did not believe in
dueling, the affair was soon forgotten.”

“All the same Mr. Burnham had to leave Paris,” retorted Marian, “and
Mr. Burnham is a man who harbors grievances. I fear, Captain, that he
does not favor your engagement to Evelyn.”

La Montagne transferred his regard from Marian to a colored passer-by
and the woman happening to catch his eye, started back, alarmed. After
he and Marian passed, the woman turned and regarded their backs before
continuing on her way.

“I ’spect he looked dat away when he seed a Hun,” she ejaculated. “An’
from de medals he’s awearin’, he musta seen a pile ob Huns, but why
fo’ he look at a respectable colored lady like he wanter murder her.”

Totally unaware of the sentiments he had aroused, la Montagne strolled
by Marian’s side for some moments in silence.

“Madame Burnham has given me letters of introduction to friends and her
husband has invited me to their house,” he said at last. “To question
Mr. Burnham’s friendship----”

“Is wise,” supplemented Marian softly. The Frenchman remained silent
and she added with vehemence: “Because when Mr. Burnham’s animosity is
suppressed it is all the more dangerous. Take a friendly tip from me;
do not trust him, and remember, he has great influence over his wife.”

“If Evelyn will but marry me, we need not heed Burnham,” exclaimed La
Montagne.

“And what have you to live on if you married without Mrs. Burnham’s
consent?” asked Marian dryly. “Ah! forgive me,” as La Montagne colored
hotly under his tan. “By the terms of her father’s will Evelyn can only
inherit her fortune by marrying to suit her mother. If Mrs. Burnham
disapproves, the fortune goes to her instead of to Evelyn.”

“Wills! Bah!” La Montagne’s gestures were expressive. “I adore Evelyn,
not her money. If _Le Bon Dieu_ be so good as to spare me through
this war Evelyn will not be badly off, as I will eventually inherit
my uncle’s estate.” He turned eloquent, appealing eyes to Marian. “Ah,
madame, use your kind offices that I may see Evelyn now.”

“Not now, to-morrow.” Marian tempered her refusal with a warm bright
smile. “Call it what you will. Captain--a sixth sense, or woman’s
intuition--but do not trust Peter Burnham.” She stopped and held out
her hand. “I will not let you come further,” she stated positively as
he started to remonstrate. “I will telephone you and anything sent in
my care will always reach Evelyn. Good by,” and not waiting to hear his
hearty thanks she turned down the street and ran up the Burnhams’ steps.

Jones opened the front door for her with gusto.

“Miss Evelyn’s gone to her room,” he confided to her. “And the master’s
out. Shall I bring a cup of tea to your room, Mrs. Van Ness?”

“No, thanks, Jones, it is too near dinner time,” and Marian, not
glancing inside the drawing room door as she passed down the hall,
mounted the staircase to the second floor. She went at once to Evelyn’s
room, and to her disappointment found it empty. Pausing undecidedly at
the door, she finally crossed the hall to her bedroom and, taking off
her hat, wasted no time in dressing for dinner.

It was still lacking fifteen minutes to the dinner hour when she
returned to Evelyn’s bedroom; its occupant was still absent, and
Marian hesitated whether to go downstairs or into the library. Finally
deciding in favor of the latter course she walked down the hall, and
parting the portières, stepped into the room. A man bending over
an open drawer of the desk straightened up at her approach and she
recognized Dan Maynard.

“Good evening,” he exclaimed, and the cordial ring in his voice found
its accompaniment in the quick lighting of his eyes as he looked at
her. “Don’t go,” as murmuring a polite greeting, she started to leave.

“Am I not disturbing your occupation?” she asked.

Maynard laughed softly. “My occupation consists at the moment in
searching for writing paper,” he acknowledged, pushing back a lot of
loose papers and some string in the drawer. “Do take this chair,” and
he wheeled one forward.

Marian settled down in the depths of the big chair with a sigh of
content; she had had no rest the night before, the work at the State
Department had been exacting, and while the walk home had for the
moment refreshed her, she was more weary than she at first realized.

“I thought I saw you motoring with Dr. Hayden and Jim Palmer,” she
remarked, after waiting for Maynard to break the silence.

“He gave me a lift as far as the Connecticut Avenue telegraph office.”
Maynard looked down at his business suit and then at her becoming
evening dress. “I must apologize for not dressing for dinner,” he said.
“The fact is I left England so hurriedly that my luggage is still in
London. The clerk in the shipping office, when I went to inquire when
the next Cunarder would sail, whispered in my ear that she was leaving
that afternoon and I had just time to make the boat but could not go
back to collect my belongings.”

“Was your trip across uneventful?” she questioned, noting with inward
approval his tall, well-knit form and broad shoulders.

“Yes, except for the search at Quarantine; some report had gotten about
that there were suspects aboard and we met with a lot of espionage and
were severely cross-examined,” he stepped back to the desk and closed
the drawer. “I am glad you like René La Montagne,” he said, and she
started at the irrelevant remark. “He’s an ‘ace,’ you know, in the
French Flying Corps.”

“Yes.” She looked at him, slightly puzzled. “How do you know I like
Captain La Montagne?”

“Because you were walking with him.”

She laughed amusedly. “Is my walking with people a sign that I like
them?”

“So I have heard--commented,” he said, and his eyes held hers. “I would
very much like to do some sight-seeing; will you not take pity and show
me Washington?”

Marian’s fingers were playing with the string of coral which she wore
about her neck. “It would be the blind leading the blind,” she said,
and her voice sounded strained even to her own ears. “Washington is
changed in the last few months. Mr. Burnham would prove a better guide
than I.”

“Speaking about me?” inquired their host from the doorway of his room
and Marian started; she had not heard the door opened. “Why are you two
sitting up here?” he demanded querulously, and Maynard, glancing in his
direction, noted that Burnham made a detour of the room which prevented
his near approach to the chair where the dead man had been found. “The
drawing room is much pleasanter,” he remarked, stopping half way across
the room. “Suppose we go there.”

Before Marian could rise, the portières were pushed aside and Detective
Mitchell stepped inside the library. He looked with quick displeasure
from one to the other.

“You were directed, sir,” he said, addressing Burnham, “by the Chief
of Police not to use this room until further notice.”

“Tut, tut!” Burnham reddened angrily. “I don’t take instructions in my
own house, and I won’t permit my guests to be dictated to. You can go,
Mitchell.”

Instead of complying with his dictatorial order the detective stood
his ground. Burnham, his face almost apoplectic in color, advanced
threateningly and except for Maynard’s hasty step forward his raised
fist would have struck Mitchell.

“Keep cool, Burnham,” he advised, and his voice brought the angry man
to his senses. “Mitchell, there is no occasion for this excitement;
Mrs. Van Ness and I were sitting here chatting and Mr. Burnham had just
joined us. We have moved nothing in this room.”

Mitchell glanced searchingly about; apparently Maynard’s statement was
correct; every piece of furniture, even the chess table, apparently
stood in its accustomed place. He glanced apologetically at Marian, who
had risen and stood with one hand on the back of her chair.

“It’s all right,” he admitted. “But as a precautionary measure the room
will have to be sealed.”

Maynard, by an imperative gesture, stopped another explosion from
Burnham. “What authority have you, Mitchell, for taking such a step?”
he inquired.

“The coroner’s orders,” gruffly. “I’ll get him,” and Mitchell
disappeared.

Burnham pounded the nearest table in his wrath. “Do you think I am
going to take orders in my own house?” he demanded of Maynard. “Do
you?” and his hand continued to punctuate the question.

“Take care, you’ll injure your chess table,” cautioned Maynard.
“There is no use in bucking up against the police, Burnham; they are
within their rights in asking to have this room set aside for further
investigation. It was thoughtless of me to come in.”

“I think we had all better leave,” suggested Marian, who had listened
to the argument between Burnham and the detective with a strained
attention which had not escaped Maynard’s notice. “I stopped in here
expecting to find Evelyn.”

“She is with Mrs. Ward,” grumbled Burnham--his temper was still
ruffled. “Hello, what’s that commotion?” as the sound of raised voices
reached them. “The police again--I’ll tell Mitchell what I think of
him, the interfering idiot!” And taking a hasty step forward he swung
his arm upward and back.

But it was not the detective who stepped across the threshold and ran
full tilt against Burnham’s outstretched, threatening fist.

“Good gracious, Peter, what are you doing?” demanded his wife, dropping
her pet dog to tenderly feel her nose. “Are you mad!” as, ignoring the
presence of Marian and Maynard, he embraced her with effusion.

“No,” he retorted. “But I think people will soon make me mad. I sent
you a telegram, Lillian, not to return. Didn’t you get it?”

“I got it--also the morning newspapers,” dryly. “You might have
telegraphed with as much effect to Mont Blanc not to freeze as to wire
me not to come home after I read what took place here yesterday. So you
are really here, Dan,” shaking hands cordially with the actor before
greeting Marian whom she kissed warmly, then she subsided into the
nearest chair, and addressed her husband. “Now, Peter, what is it all
about?”

Burnham looked vexedly at his wife; there were times when her brusque
manner tried his patience, but experience had taught him that she
pursued one idea with bulldog tenacity, and if she had made up her mind
to hear full particulars of the mysterious tragedy which had brought
her hurrying back to Washington, she would sit in that chair until
she had the information she desired. Burnham was saved replying to
her question by the return of Mitchell and Coroner Penfield, and he
welcomed the latter with relief.

“My wife, Coroner Penfield,” he said by way of introduction, “and Mrs.
Van Ness; Mr. Maynard you have already met.”

Penfield bowed to all in turn.

“I am sorry, Mr. Burnham,” he began, finding attention centered upon
him, “but I really think it is necessary to close this room for a few
days.”

“Why?” demanded Mrs. Burnham, and Penfield eyed her uneasily; he had
heard much of her, of her social position, her philanthropy, her
eccentricities, and her caustic wit. In spite of her disheveled and
dusty traveling costume her air of breeding and quiet hauteur showed
the characteristics which had gained her leadership among Washington’s
most exclusive society.

“Sudden death has to be investigated, madam,” explained Penfield, not
relishing the persistent gaze of her penetrating cold blue eyes. “It is
unfortunate that your library should have been the scene of this man’s
death.”

“It is very unfortunate,” agreed Mrs. Burnham, as Penfield paused,
finding himself getting somewhat involved in his statement. “Have
you and the police discovered the name of the individual who had the
temerity to commit suicide in my house?”

“He did not commit suicide.” Penfield was losing patience and the faint
smile on Maynard’s face nettled him. “The man was murdered.”

“Murdered!” Except for the exclamation Mrs. Burnham sat bolt upright
silently regarding Penfield who bore her fixed stare as long as he
could and then changed his position.

“We haven’t been able to identify the man so far,” he went on to
say. “We have searched the Rogues’ Gallery, photographers’ studios,
telegraphed his description to other cities, and no clue.”

“And no clue?” Mrs. Burnham’s repetition of the words was parrot-like
in its mimicry. “Did the dead man have no papers in his pocket? Were
his clothes unmarked?”

“They were,” replied Penfield. “The only article to be found in the
man’s pockets was a string.” He turned abruptly to Maynard. “You recall
seeing the string?”

“I do.”

Penfield looked relieved. “I am glad you do,” he exclaimed. “This case
puzzles me, and I have given it so much thought that I concluded I had
imagined the string.”

Burnham, who had seated himself near his wife, looked up.

“Have you the string?” he asked.

“No,” glumly. “I recollect twirling it about my fingers just before
Mrs. Ward fell unconscious to the floor. After we carried her to
her room I searched for the string but could not find it,” finished
Penfield.

The parting of the portières disturbed Mrs. Burnham and looking up she
beheld Jones, his eyes twice their usual size, regarding her from the
doorway.

“Dinner is served, madam,” he announced.




CHAPTER VI

DEVELOPMENTS


SCURRYING footsteps caused Peter Burnham to stop unwrapping the bundle
in his hand and dart to the door of his bedroom. From that vantage
point he saw Evelyn cross the hall and disappear down the staircase.
He took quick note of her well cut sport suit and the lovely bouquet
of orchids pinned thereon. Evelyn, busily engaged in adjusting a
stray curl under her smart tri-cornered hat, failed to observe her
step-father standing well back in the shadow of his doorway. Burnham
waited in indecision until the slam of the front door reached him, then
going back to his bureau he closed its drawers and went swiftly to his
wife’s boudoir.

Mrs. Burnham looked up at his approach and dropped her knitting in her
lap.

“Don’t close the door, Peter,” she remonstrated. “It is very warm in
here and the room is stuffy.”

“Then why not open this second window?” asked Burnham. Not waiting
for an answer to his question, he threw up the sash and in the sudden
current of air admitted by the opening of the window, the papers on
his wife’s desk blew about the room.

“There, Peter, see what you have done.” Mrs. Burnham’s vexation was
betrayed by her heightened color. “And I have just tidied my desk. Be
sure and put every letter back exactly where it was.”

It took Burnham some minutes to comply with her request, and she
observed with silent, but growing irritation, that her correspondence
was not being piled in neat little packages such as she had arranged
with minute attention to detail earlier that morning.

“Don’t trouble to put the bills uppermost,” she said, her eyes
twinkling. “That will do nicely, Peter; come and sit down, you look
warm,” and her pointed knitting needle indicated the vacant arm chair,
the mate to the one she was occupying, which, with her chair and a
table, about filled the octagon-shaped wing of her boudoir.

Burnham sat down with a short, discontented sigh. “I can’t conceive why
we closed the Lodge and came in town so early,” he grumbled, dabbing
his forehead with a handkerchief. “Washington is unbearable.”

“The nights are not so bad, and if you would keep cool, Peter, you
would not feel the heat so much.” Mrs. Burnham took up her knitting.
“If I remember correctly it was you who first suggested our returning
this month.”

Burnham moved restlessly and pursed up his lips. “Well, what could we
do with Evelyn taking the bit in her teeth?” he demanded. “You cannot
detain a girl in a convent by force, and she could not remain in this
city unchaperoned.”

“True.” Mrs. Burnham contented herself with the single word and knitted
on in silence.

“It is a great pity, Lillian,” complained Burnham, growing restive
under the short quick glances with which his wife favored him, “that
your discipline was so lax; in consequence, Evelyn has grown up with
the idea that her wish is law.”

“She comes of a headstrong race,” acknowledged Mrs. Burnham, with a
half sigh. “Do not worry, Peter, Evelyn will consider herself madly in
love a dozen times before she actually finds the man she will marry.”

Burnham leaned back in his chair and thrust his hands in his pockets.
“René La Montagne is still in town,” he announced.

“Not really?” Mrs. Burnham laid aside her knitting. “I understood he
had been detailed to one of the aviation training camps in the South.”

“He hasn’t gone yet for Maynard told me that he saw him at the Shoreham
Tuesday night.” Mrs. Burnham made no comment and her husband added
with suppressed vehemence, “Tough luck!”

Mrs. Burnham drummed her knitting needles up and down on the arm of her
chair in troubled silence.

“I disapprove of international marriages,” she said finally. “I have
seen too many unhappy results; take, for instance, Marian Van Ness----”
Her needles clicked loudly in the still room, and there was a decided
pause before she added: “I don’t really know the rights of the case as
Marian was married in Europe and passed her brief matrimonial career
away from Washington, but,” again Mrs. Burnham paused, “but I agree
with the diplomat who said: ‘Those whom the Atlantic has put asunder,
let no man join together.’”

“You will have a difficult task convincing Evelyn of your viewpoint,”
retorted Burnham. “If I don’t mistake the signs you may face an
elopement, if, as I strongly suspect, Evelyn and René are carrying on a
clandestine correspondence.”

Mrs. Burnham stooped to retrieve her ball of yarn which had rolled to
the floor before she asked: “Where did you get that idea?”

“From Jones, whose mysterious manner when I met him carrying a box
of flowers to Evelyn and delivering a note surreptitiously made me
suspicious. I promptly told him to report to you hereafter whenever
letters and packages were given him for Evelyn.”

“Quite right.” Mrs. Burnham spoke with decision. “We want no
elopements; but upon my word, Peter, I could not help but like René La
Montagne. If it were not for the fact that he is a foreigner and that
he is personally objectionable to you----” She hesitated and cast a
penetrating look at her husband who sat staring moodily at the floor.
“He is still objectionable to you?” she asked.

“Yes, but why go into that?” he answered sharply, then yawned. “Upon
my word, Lillian, I have had very little sleep lately; I believe I’ll
go and take a nap.” As he spoke he rose and stretched himself, then
took several indolent steps toward the door, but his wife’s next remark
halted him on its threshold.

“Any news from Coroner Penfield?”

“Not a word.” Burnham rubbed his chin reflectively. “The police,
according to the morning newspapers, have failed to discover the man’s
identity.”

“Strange!” mused Mrs. Burnham. “And haven’t they ascertained why he was
killed in this house?”

Burnham shifted his weight first on one foot and then on the other, his
hands clenched inside his coat pockets.

“My dear Lillian, you cannot establish a motive for the crime--if
crime it was,” he interpolated, “until you establish the man’s
identity. See you later,” and smiling affectionately at her he turned
and left the room.

Mrs. Burnham knitted on and the khaki sweater gained in size as her
industrious fingers plied the needles. Finally she laid the half
completed garment in her lap and looked about the boudoir. It was a
pleasant room, light and airy, and its home-like atmosphere was borne
out in its furniture still covered with summer chintz. The oddly shaped
octagon wing added to its size and general appearance.

Mrs. Burnham stared thoughtfully down into the garden which the octagon
windows overlooked, then turned her head and glanced through the side
window diagonally across into Evelyn’s bedroom. From where she sat
she viewed with displeasure the clothes thrown in a disorderly heap
on Evelyn’s bed and started to call through the opened windows to the
chambermaid whom she glimpsed in another part of the room, not to put
away the clothes but to leave that task to Evelyn. Even as she made up
her mind, the maid whisked out of the bedroom and Mrs. Burnham turned
her attention to the room in which she was sitting.

Laying her knitting on the table she listened a moment. Only the
twitter of birds and the distant hum of a motor disturbed the peaceful
autumn stillness. Releasing her hold on the sweater, Mrs. Burnham
picked up her large knitting bag and when she removed her hand from
its capacious interior her fingers grasped a pair of shell spectacles
and a book. Laying the latter in her lap she adjusted the spectacles
on her nose, then she raised the book and scanned its title: “Taylor’s
Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology.” She turned the leaves rapidly
until she came to the heading “Detection of Poisons” and her eyes ran
down the pages picking out the paragraphs opposite which she discerned
faint pencil marks. When she again returned the book to its place in
her knitting bag an hour had passed.

Blissfully unconscious that she had formed the chief topic of
conversation between her step-father and mother, Evelyn Preston, on
leaving the house, hurried to Dupont Circle and seeing a disengaged
taxi waiting at the cab-stand she entered the machine and directed the
chauffeur to take her to Potomac Park.

As the taxi-cab threaded its way among the vehicles filling Seventeenth
Street below Pennsylvania Avenue, Evelyn gazed in wonder at the
congested sidewalks. It was the noon hour and clerks from the immense
Government buildings in the vicinity were hurrying to lunch rooms and
cafeterias which had sprung up like mushrooms to meet the demands of
hungry humanity. Evelyn mentally contrasted the scene with that in the
same locality six months before and shook her head in bewilderment; the
once peaceful old-time residence district had been electrified into
life by the iron hand of war.

The taxi-cab, narrowly missing an on-coming touring car which
zig-zagged unpleasantly in its effort to make the turn into Seventeenth
Street, swung into Potomac Drive and, following Evelyn’s directions,
the chauffeur drove his car to the Aviation Field which had been
formerly the polo grounds of the National Capital. The taxi-cab’s
approach had been observed from the hangar, and one of the officers
standing near the building crossed the turf and was at the roadside
when the car drew up.

As Evelyn looked down into La Montagne’s happy upturned face all the
doubts which had been tormenting her vanished. Without speaking he
jerked open the cab door and seated himself by her side.

“My heart’s dearest,” he murmured in rapid French. “At last!” and his
hands clasped hers and stooping he kissed her in the shelter of the
closed cab. “Mrs. Van Ness explained----” he began a moment later.

“Indeed she did, bless her!” ejaculated Evelyn happily, in his native
tongue which she spoke with barely an accent, and she touched her
orchids with tender fingers. “These flowers came through her agency, as
well as your dear note, René.”

“I followed her advice.” La Montagne’s face darkened. “But I like
not to court you in secret, dear heart; surely your mother is one to
see reason. I am not,” flushing, “objectionable; nor am I altogether
without money.”

“I do not think it was mother who suppressed your letters,” exclaimed
Evelyn. “I suspect my step-father----”

An exclamation interrupted her. “I cannot understand a nature so
complex,” declared La Montagne. “Mr. Burnham on the surface, perhaps,
is the most gracious host----” He paused abruptly. “But do not let
us waste the precious hour talking of him; what of yourself?” and he
scanned her with adoring eyes.

“I am very well and--” with a shy upward look--“happy, now that your
silence is explained.” Her eyes filled with tears. “Ah, René, I was
cruelly hurt by your apparent neglect.”

“Never think that of me again,” exclaimed La Montagne, deep feeling in
voice and gesture. “You are my ideal, my love. I will marry you with or
without your mother’s consent.”

Evelyn shook her head in dissent as she pressed his hand. “We will
marry, but it will be with mother’s approval,” she said. “Mr. Burnham
is clever, but he cannot hoodwink mother all the time; and”--she nodded
wisely--“I have a score to settle for what he made me suffer this
summer.”

“Were you ill-treated, heart’s dearest?” demanded La Montagne.

“Oh, no. I chose the convent after a dispute with Mr. Burnham who
insisted that I accept Mary Palmer’s invitation to spend the summer
with her in the Adirondacks.” She hesitated, then in a sudden burst
of confidence, added a trifle incoherently: “I didn’t care to accept
because, you see, Mary’s brother, Jim Palmer, has--well, he--that is,
he likes me.”

“I can well believe it,” acknowledged La Montagne and they laughed
light-heartedly, but a shadow lurked in his handsome eyes as he glanced
at her fresh young beauty. “And this Monsieur Jim, does he make love?”

“Well, he tries to,” admitted Evelyn, and a faint roguish dimple
appeared in her cheek as a sudden recollection of a scene with Jim
Palmer at the Chevy Chase Club brought a covert smile to her lips. “Mr.
Palmer is my step-father’s most intimate friend, and so----”

“He favors the match; ah, I begin to see.” La Montagne straightened
his slender figure to military erectness. “There is a motive then for
Mr. Burnham’s animosity other than that suggested by our good friend,
Madame Van Ness. But tell me, Evelyn,” and his tender voice caressed
her name, “what is this I read in the newspapers of a dead man in your
house?”

“I know no more about it than what you saw in the papers.” Evelyn’s
blue eyes clouded. “It was a great shock to find him sitting there in
the library--dead. Apparently the police are at as great a loss about
the whole affair as I am.”

“I saw they had not decided the man’s identity.” The Frenchman paused
and glanced doubtfully at Evelyn; he had been quick to observe her loss
of color at mention of the tragedy and concluded with the intuitive
sympathy of his nature that the subject distressed her, and the words
which he had intended to say remained unspoken. “Let us discuss no more
such gloomy matters. Will you not lunch with me at the Willard?”

Evelyn considered the invitation before she answered. “I wish I could
accept,” she said, and her disappointment was evident. “But there is
no use needlessly antagonizing mother. She is a great stickler for
the conventions, and I know she would not permit me to lunch with you
unchaperoned.”

[Illustration: He took out Marian’s package of papers and placed them
in Evelyn’s lap.]

“But where can we meet?” demanded La Montagne; a glance at the hangar
had shown him an orderly advancing toward the car and he rightly
divined that his presence was required by a brother officer. “Heart’s
dearest, do not let it be long before I see you again.”

“I am dining to-night with Marian, why not come to her apartment this
evening?”

“Excellent!” La Montagne nodded to the orderly who stood at salute
beside the car. “I will be with the colonel at once,” he said
addressing him and as the soldier moved away, he turned again to Evelyn
and kissed her hand passionately before he sprang from the car. “Ah, I
just remember--you will see Mrs. Van Ness before I do, therefore will
you hand her these papers which I was so forgetful as to carry away in
my pocket when I left her yesterday?” As he spoke he took out Marian’s
package of papers and placed them in Evelyn’s lap.

Evelyn’s chauffeur, finding that she and La Montagne were too absorbed
in each other to pay attention to him, had wandered over to the hangar,
keeping a watchful eye on his car. He had overheard the dispatch of
the orderly for La Montagne, and had promptly hurried back to the car,
reaching it just as the Frenchman strode away.

“Where to, Miss?” he asked. Evelyn, absorbed in watching La Montagne,
actually jumped as his harsh voice recalled her attention. She gazed at
him blankly for a moment.

“To Woodward and Lothrop’s,” she directed, and added as he prepared to
slip into the driver’s seat, “Haven’t I seen you before?”

“Yes, Miss.” He half turned, his freckles and red hair showing
distinctly in the glare of the sunlight. “I took you home from the
Union Station on Tuesday morning.”

“Oh, surely, I remember now,” and Evelyn settled back in the car.

She was some time in doing her numerous errands and it was two hours
before the taxi-cab swung into her street and stopped with such
abruptness in front of her door that her many packages which partly
filled the seat by her side were deposited on the floor of the car.
With the aid of the apologetic chauffeur she was engaged in picking
them up when a voice behind her caused her to turn around.

“Let me help,” exclaimed Dan Maynard, and reaching past her he
retrieved a skein of worsted which eluded her grasp. “Your mother was
quite worried when you didn’t return for luncheon. In fact,” and his
charming smile was contagious, “I believe I stopped her from sending
the town crier after you.”

“And who is he?” asked Evelyn laughing.

“Burnham, perhaps.” Maynard laughed also. “Let me pay the man, your
hands are full,” as she fumbled for her purse.

“No, no,” she protested, but Maynard, paying no attention, turned back
to question the chauffeur and before Evelyn could reach them Maynard
handed the man a bank note.

“We can settle it later, Evelyn,” he said. “Now, don’t let us squabble
over a trifle.”

“A trifle!” Evelyn laughed gayly. “I don’t call a three hour taxi bill
a trifle; however, we’ll let Mother arbitrate the dispute. What is it?”
as the chauffeur ran up to her.

“Another package, Miss,” and touching his hat he placed the bundle of
papers on top of the packages she carried and retired.

“Take care, you will drop them,” cautioned Maynard, putting a steadying
hand on the packages. He had just succeeded in readjusting their
balance when his sleeve button caught in a string, and as he drew back
his hand several papers from the package entrusted to her care by La
Montagne fluttered to the ground.

“Very awkward of me,” exclaimed Maynard, annoyed by his carelessness,
and he stooped to pick up the papers and returned them to Evelyn.
Then his hand sought the door bell and Evelyn, her eyes following his
motion, saw the string still dangling from his sleeve button. The
string, of woven red and green strands, stood out in bold relief
against the white woodwork of the doorway.

Where had she seen such a string before? Slowly Evelyn’s thoughts
returned to the scene in the library on Tuesday afternoon, and again
she saw a similar string removed from the dead man’s pocket and twirled
about in the coroner’s fingers.

Maynard’s glance had followed hers; his finger pressed the button of
the door bell hard, then was removed as he held up his hand.

“From which bundle did I pull off this string?” he asked.

Evelyn looked at the packages in her hand in uncertainty; Marian’s
bundle of papers was untied, a box of candy, and some stationery were
also minus their strings due to the careless handling they had received
while she carried them about with her on her shopping tour.

“I really don’t know,” she replied. “Oh, Jones,” as that worthy opened
the front door. “Do get me something to eat, I am famished.”

She turned back inside the hall to address Maynard, but he had stopped
just outside the door and was carefully pocketing the red and green
string.




CHAPTER VII

THE FIFTH MAN


DR. HAYDEN threw aside the magazine he had been reading and, making
himself more comfortable on the big lounge, puffed contentedly at his
cigar as he looked over to where Jim Palmer and Peter Burnham sat
playing chess.

“Haven’t you people finished the game yet?” he asked, yawning openly.

His question met with no response from the absorbed players, and
curling up on the lounge the tired physician burrowed his head among
the sofa cushions and dropped off to sleep. An hour later Siki,
Palmer’s Japanese servant, looked inside the room which served Hayden
and Palmer, who shared the bachelor apartment, as living room and
dining room, and seeing the two men still deep in their game, he
withdrew as noiselessly as he had come. He had barely reached the
butler’s pantry when the gong on the front door went off with a
resounding din. Gliding down the hallway Siki opened the door and
admitted Dan Maynard.

“Mr. Palmer is expecting me,” he said, handing his hat and cane to the
servant, and stepped across the reception hall. But before he reached
the living room the Japanese had gained the doorway.

“The Honorable Mr. Maynard,” he announced and withdrew.

Palmer looked up from the chess table and waved his hand.

“Sit down, Maynard, the game will be over in a minute.”

Burnham, who had not glanced up, moved a rook across the board. “It’s
over now; mate in three, Jim,” he announced, and threw himself back
in his chair and passed his hand across his hot forehead. “Want your
revenge now, Maynard? I can play another game.”

“No, my revenge will keep,” laughed Maynard. “You look used up,
Burnham; too much concentration is bad for you.”

Burnham yawned in answer and Palmer, rising, lounged over to where Dr.
Hayden lay comfortably sleeping, snoring lustily.

“Wake up,” he exclaimed and enforced his remark with a vigorous shake.
“Maynard’s come and Siki has some refreshments ready for us.” His words
were borne out by the entrance of the Japanese with a tray laden with
sandwiches and a cellarette. Siki vanished, to return a minute later
with a chafing-dish containing lobster à la Newburg which he placed on
a table set for four places.

Dr. Hayden sat up and rubbed his sleepy eyes. Catching sight of Maynard
he bowed cordially as he joined the others about the table.

“Good cook, Siki,” he remarked a little later after sampling the hot
lobster. “You are lucky to have so excellent a servant, Palmer.”

Palmer made a wry face. “I won’t have him long,” he grumbled. “He gave
notice to-day; these rich newcomers are playing hob with the domestic
service in Washington.” He paused and glanced significantly at Burnham.
“Don’t be so niggardly with the decanter; pass it along,” he suggested.

Burnham was about to comply when Hayden held up a protesting hand.

“Go easy, Palmer, or you will have another attack,” he cautioned.

Palmer grinned sheepishly at Maynard. “Take my advice,” he said. “Don’t
invite your physician to share your apartment if you want to enjoy
life. Hayden finds fault every time I forget I am on the water-wagon.”

“Some people have peculiar ideas regarding their welfare,” retorted
Hayden. “Your heart won’t stand many more attacks; so go easy.”
Observing Palmer’s obstinate expression, he added, “Move the decanter
out of Palmer’s way, Maynard, there’s a good fellow.”

As Maynard complied with the request his casual glance at Palmer was
arrested by the haggard lines in his face and the puffiness under his
eyes; he looked what he evidently was, an ill man.

“Pooh!” Palmer exclaimed airily. “Sleep will set me right. I believe
the people in the apartment above are to move out; once rid of their
infernal parties I’ll be able to work on my plans. An architect needs
peace and quiet as well as powerful lights. This house is a sounding
board.”

“Is it an old building?” asked Maynard.

“No, not very, built about ten years ago.”

“The rooms are very commodious,” commented Maynard, looking around the
room, which was arranged with much artistic taste.

“Glad you like it,” exclaimed Palmer, much gratified. “I was the
architect. By the way, Burnham, who do you suppose leased one of the
smaller apartments this summer? Marian Van Ness.”

“So she told me,” returned Burnham shortly. Maynard, who had glanced
up at mention of Marian’s name, helped himself thoughtfully to some
Newburg.

“Any apartments vacant, Palmer?” he inquired. The architect nodded
affirmatively. “Then I might rent one, as I plan to remain in
Washington until December at least.”

“Surely you will stay with us?” Burnham looked hurt. “We want you to
stay with us, Maynard.”

“Are you sure I won’t be imposing on your hospitality?” asked Maynard.
“I feel perhaps you and Mrs. Burnham would rather not be bothered with
a guest just at this time.”

“Nonsense; we don’t want to be alone.” Burnham spoke with great
vehemence and his three companions looked at him in surprise. With an
effort he strove to gain control over his emotion. “That--that man’s
death is getting on our nerves,” he admitted, and the hand holding
his wine glass shook. “Neither my wife nor I feel the same since the
tragedy; it’s so--so devilish mysterious.”

“The police will soon clear it up,” said Hayden cheerily. “Give them
time, Burnham.”

“I would, if I had any faith in their methods,” Burnham rejoined. “What
have they done to date? Nothing.”

“Apparently not a thing,” amended Maynard. “The police don’t tell
everything they know, Burnham; they may have unearthed a whole lot
which will come out at the inquest.”

“Then I wish they would hold the trial,” Burnham tossed down his
napkin. “There is no reason in such secrecy; let them arrest the
murderer at once.”

“Before they can do that they must establish the identity of the dead
man.” Maynard waited until Siki had removed his plate, then continued,
“that is the logical end to work from in solving the riddle.”

Dr. Hayden nodded his agreement. “The police are working along those
lines,” he said. “To date they have made but negative progress, and
yet----” He paused until Siki departed with the empty chafing dish.

“What were you going to say?” demanded Burnham.

“Only that I stopped to see Coroner Penfield this afternoon and found
him working in his laboratory; he was making a test of the dead man’s
hair. You noticed perhaps,” he broke off to ask Maynard who was sitting
forward in his chair, “that the man’s hair was very closely cropped?”

“Yes,” he responded. “It was so short that it made his head look bullet
shaped.”

“The coroner is nettled because this case has baffled him, so he set
his wits to work,” continued Hayden. “He pulled out some of the short
hair from the man’s head with tweezers and steeped the hair in diluted
nitric acid.”

“With what result?” Burnham almost jerked out the question.

“By tests with hydrochloric acid, Penfield found that the hair had been
dyed with nitrate of silver,” answered Hayden. “And I found the same
result upon microscopic examination of a few hairs.”

“Well, what if you did find nitrate of silver?” Burnham demanded
roughly. “How does that advance the inquiry?”

“It established the fact that the man had dyed his hair,” explained the
physician. “The inference being he did so for purposes of disguise.”

Palmer, who had been an attentive listener to all that was said,
laughed heartily. “Oh, come, Hayden,” he exclaimed. “That’s a broad
statement. I know a number of men, respectable citizens of Washington,
who dye their hair for no other reason than to look younger.”

“Your friends have not been found dead under mysterious circumstances,”
said Hayden dryly. “In the case in point we must consider the ulterior
motive; therefore this unidentified dead man can be said to have dyed
his hair from a motive of disguise until it is proven otherwise.”

“I’ll admit it’s a nice point,” conceded Palmer, twisting about in his
chair. “Could you tell from the examination, the original color of the
man’s hair?”

“Oh, bother!” broke in Burnham. “Who cares about the color of his
hair--how did his dead body get in my house?”

“Walked there,” answered Maynard, a twinkle in his eyes belying his
serious expression. “The man couldn’t have been dead when he entered
your house.”

“He couldn’t, eh? Well, will you tell me where he died in my house?”
Burnham’s manner waxed truculent. “I have searched every room with
Palmer and Detective Mitchell and we found no trace of any one, let
alone two persons, having been there drinking--what was it? Oh, yes,
cherry brandy.”

“Every room was in order,” added Palmer. “No sign of confusion.
Frankly, I agree with Burnham, the man must have been taken to his
house, dead.”

Maynard stared at the speaker. “Do you mean to tell me seriously that
you two men believe a dead body was carried into Burnham’s house in
broad daylight between the hours of three and five in the afternoon
without any one seeing it done?”

“I do,” announced Burnham firmly. “As to the hours, don’t place too
much reliance on Evelyn’s statement regarding the time she found the
body; Evelyn is very heedless and a few hours miscalculation in time
wouldn’t disturb her.”

A subtle change in Burnham’s tone as he mentioned Evelyn’s name caught
Maynard’s attention and looking up quickly he saw Palmer was watching
Burnham, a curious glint in his eye which Maynard found difficult to
fathom.

“Evelyn told me that she had her watch examined and that it keeps
excellent time,” stated Hayden. “Of course we are all liable to make
mistakes in the hour; but in this instance Evelyn is unshaken in her
belief that she found the body in the library at about four o’clock,
and that it was not there when she was in the room at half past two.”

“There would be no object in Evelyn lying as to the time,” exclaimed
Palmer, and his heavy frown indicated his temper was rising. “I hardly
think, Burnham, you can impugn her testimony.”

“Don’t be a fool!” retorted Burnham hotly. “The girl is proverbially
careless; carelessness is at the bottom of the confusion in time.”

Only Hayden’s strong hand kept Palmer in his seat. “Don’t excite
yourself, Burnham,” he advised sternly, “and tell us quietly just what
your theory is regarding the murder. As for you, Palmer, shut up!” His
half-bantering tone conveyed a deeper meaning and Palmer, observing
Burnham’s flushed countenance, held back his angry answer.

“My theory,” repeated Burnham thoughtfully, as he passed a damp
handkerchief across his face. “The man was taken to my house dead and
the murderer made his escape before Evelyn came up from the kitchen.”

“Just a moment.” Hayden leaned forward. “Why did the murderer ring the
library bell to summon Evelyn?”

“How do I know?” Burnham’s excitement was mounting the more he talked.
“Probably he did it in a moment of--of mental aberration.”

Hayden chuckled. “Well, putting that point aside for a moment,” he
said, “there is the question of getting the body through the streets
and up your steps unseen in broad daylight by any passers-by.”

“Confound it!” Burnham banged the table with his clenched fist until
the glasses rattled. “Why do you keep harping on daylight? The coroner
claims that the man died between two and three Tuesday morning; the
murderer had ample time _before_ daylight to take the body to my
house----”

“But Evelyn did not find the body until Tuesday afternoon,” interrupted
Palmer heatedly.

“She did not find the body in the library until Tuesday afternoon,”
retorted Burnham. “But I am willing to bet any amount that had Evelyn
looked through the entire house she would have found it concealed
somewhere on the premises.”

In the silence that ensued Burnham glanced triumphantly at his
companions, but their expression disappointed him; his theory had not
created the sensation he had expected.

“Of course the body was in the house,” answered Hayden. “It had to be
there that length of time, for the man was dead hours before Evelyn
found him. Why the body was moved into the library, why the murderer
returned to the scene of his crime, and why he rang the library bell
are problems yet to be solved.”

“There is a point you are all overlooking,” broke in Palmer. “Where did
the murderer get the keys to your house? There is no evidence to show
he broke into the house, therefore he must have used a key.”

Burnham did not reply at once. “There are dishonest locksmiths, I
suppose, as well as crooks in other trades,” he said finally. “The lock
on the front door is old fashioned, and the same key opens the outer
vestibule door also.”

“Not a very secure arrangement,” remarked Maynard. “Then you think keys
were made to fit the doors in your absence this summer?”

“Yes. It would be an easy matter for a man to get a wax impression
of the lock at night without attracting attention. The few people on
our block who are home are at work all day and at the club at night;
that is why,” added Burnham obstinately, “the dead man could have been
brought at any hour to the house unknown to any one.”

“You mean brought in a cab?” inquired Maynard.

“Of course. A dead man couldn’t be carried through the streets without
being seen by some one,” replied Burnham. “Have a little sense!”

Maynard paid no attention to his companion’s irritability.

“So you think the dead man was carried to your house in a cab,” he
mused. “If that was the case it simplifies the search.”

“How so?” The question came from Palmer and Maynard turned slightly to
face him.

“It should be a comparatively easy matter to trace the cab driver,” he
said.

“An excellent idea,” agreed Hayden. “Provided, of course, that
Burnham’s theory is correct--that the man was first murdered and then
carried into his house. Frankly, as a medical man I don’t agree with
Burnham’s reasoning; a dead body is a very unwieldy object to move
around and would most certainly attract attention.”

“The man was only of medium height and thin,” protested Burnham, and
then added in haste which Maynard was quick to note, “that is, judging
from the glimpse I had of the body on the billiard table. Palmer,” as
the latter rose, “hand me a cigar from the box on the mantel, thanks,”
and he borrowed Maynard’s cigarette to light the fresh cigar.

The silence continued as Palmer, his big form moving quietly down the
room, reached one of the front windows and opened it wide. For a short
time he stood contemplating the opposite houses, dimly seen in the
murky atmosphere, and filled his lungs with the damp air. Hearing his
name he faced about.

“Have you disappeared for good, Palmer?” called Burnham. “We must be
getting along. I----”

Whatever Burnham intended to say remained unuttered as a stinging
sensation caused him to clap his hand to his face. When he removed it
his palm showed blood from a graze on his cheek.

“Shot, by God!” he exclaimed, gazing dazedly at his companions.

Palmer moved swiftly from the window and peered over Hayden’s shoulder
at a hole in the plaster--the bullet had mushroomed out. Maynard tapped
the wall. “Brick,” he said tersely, and his face shone white in the
rays of the electric lamp which Palmer held aloft to better inspect the
bullet. “I heard no sound.”

“None of us did,” responded Burnham hoarsely. “Whoever fired the shot
used a Maxim silencer.”

Hayden moistened his finger and touched the hot metal. “Fortunate you
moved your head when you did, Burnham,” he commented dryly. “Where did
the shot come from?”

A sudden stronger puff of air rattled the newspapers lying near the
open window and the men turned in that direction.

“Jove! the window!” Palmer sped in that direction. “I saw no one on the
balcony when I looked out a few minutes ago; then you called, Burnham.”

Maynard, who had hurried with him to the window, leaned far out, and
looked up and down the balcony which ran across the front of the
apartment.

“Who owns the next apartment?” he demanded, observing that another
window opened upon the balcony. “There, where the window is.”

“That’s our hall window,” explained Palmer. Turning on his heel he
hurried into the reception hall with such speed that he collided
violently with his Japanese servant. “Siki, what are you doing here?”
he demanded.

“I come to answer the door, most honorable sir,” responded the servant
and glancing ahead Palmer saw the front door to his apartment was ajar
and that a shadowy form stood in the corridor just outside the entrance.

“What do you want?” he asked, pushing Siki to one side and switching on
an additional light; by its aid he saw that the man in the corridor was
a French officer.

“I come to inquire the way to the apartment of Madame Van Ness,” the
Frenchman stated, observing with well-bred surprise Palmer’s agitated
appearance.

“Right upstairs, next floor,” the latter snapped, and shutting the door
he was in time to catch Burnham as he staggered to a seat in nervous
collapse.

“It’s that damned Frenchman----” Burnham could hardly articulate, and
Hayden hastened to his aid. “He tried to kill me.”

“He--who?” demanded Maynard who had lingered behind at the window to
look up and down the street before joining them. “Who tried to kill
you?”

“René La Montagne!” gasped Burnham and slipped back insensible.




CHAPTER VIII

FURTHER DEVELOPMENTS


UNDER the full glare of the electric lights which he had turned on,
Palmer tramped uneasily up and down his living room while he waited
for Hayden to return from the bedroom where the three men had taken
Peter Burnham twenty minutes before. Maynard, more self-controlled, sat
before the chess board and, utterly lost to his companion’s continued
restlessness, he moved the chessmen about intent only on solving some
abstruse problem. The minutes dragged along before Palmer’s impatience
was finally rewarded by the entrance of the physician.

“Burnham has regained consciousness and is resting more easily,” he
announced, as the two men came toward him. “If he continues to improve
I see no reason why he should not return home a little later; if
not----”

“He can have my bedroom,” interrupted Palmer. “But some one will have
to tell Mrs. Burnham;” Palmer did not look happy at the thought.
“Guess it’s up to you, Maynard, to break the news; you are their house
guest.”

Hayden walked over to the wall and stared at the bullet then, without
speaking to his companions, he paced off the distance to the window
facing the balcony which still remained open, and reaching there he
turned and studied the room.

“The bullet must have come from this direction,” he said. “Burnham was
sitting directly in the line of fire. Did you see any one lurking on
the balcony, Palmer, when you looked out?”

“No, and yet some one must have been hiding there.” Palmer stepped over
to the window. “It’s a dark night”--pointing to the overcast sky and
foggy atmosphere, “and the light in this room made the balcony darker
by contrast. I don’t see how any one could have gotten on the balcony
from the hall in the brief time which elapsed between my turning my
back to the window and the firing of the shot; it was like that----” A
snap of his fingers illustrated his meaning.

Maynard moved nearer. “An agile man could do it,” he spoke with
conviction. “I found the balcony window in the hall standing wide open.”

Palmer walked down the room to the desk telephone. “Then I think we had
better call in the police,” he said. “Captain La Montagne can explain
his presence in the corridor to them.”

“He did, to you,” retorted Maynard warmly. “He stated he was looking
for Mrs. Van Ness’ apartment. La Montagne is absolutely straight; I
have known him for years, he would not stoop to assassination.”

“But Burnham’s words implied----” objected Palmer.

“Don’t place too much reliance in Burnham’s statement,” interrupted
Hayden. “He made it when half delirious; better wait until he is in a
condition to explain more fully the grounds for the animosity which,
judging from his remark, exists between him and La Montagne.”

“A wise suggestion,” declared Maynard heartily. “Doctor, you have
sense; now, Palmer, put down the telephone and let us investigate this
matter ourselves without calling in the police, at any rate not now,”
he added, seeing Palmer still kept hold of the telephone. “Suppose I go
up to Mrs. Van Ness’ apartment and see if La Montagne is there, then
I’ll come back and report what I learn.”

Palmer set the telephone back on the desk. “I’ll go with you,” he
announced. “Siki’s here, Hayden; if you need aid in looking after
Burnham just ring for him, or send him up for us. Come on, Maynard,”
and he started for the door, Maynard keeping step with him. They found
the corridor deserted as they walked down its length toward the
staircase.

“Mrs. Van Ness’ apartment is on the next floor,” remarked Palmer. “No
need of taking the elevator,” and in silence the two men mounted the
stairs.

On reaching the top Maynard, who was slightly in advance of his
companion, found the corridor blocked by several suit cases and a
trunk. A man, standing by the freight elevator shaft, left off ringing
the bell and hurried toward Maynard.

“Beg pardon,” he exclaimed, hauling the trunk to one side to permit
Maynard and Palmer passing along. “I thought the elevator would be here
now. Evening, Mr. Palmer,” and he touched his cap on recognizing the
architect.

“Oh, Sam!” Palmer nodded affably to the taxi-driver. “Who’s moving out
to-night?”

“The party in ‘41,’ sir; and he’s agoin’ to miss his train if he don’t
look sharp;” Sam pushed back his cap to mop the damp red hair which
tumbled down on his forehead. “He was to send the janitor up on the
freighter for his things, but I bet he’s asittin’ in my car awonderin’
where I’m at; these here foreigners are mighty queer actin’ sometimes.”

Palmer laughed. “I’m glad ‘41’ is leaving; I shan’t be annoyed by his
noisy parties over my head. Here’s the elevator now, Sam, good-night,”
and not waiting for Sam’s response Palmer hastened after Maynard who
had strolled down one of the wings of the building opening front the
main corridor.

“Which way?” he inquired, turning about as Palmer reached him.

“That further door, there,” and striding forward Palmer laid an
impatient finger on the bell. There was a slight delay, then the door
was opened by an old colored Mammy, her black face in striking contrast
to her snow white apron, cuffs, and collar.

“Can we see Mrs. Van Ness?” asked Palmer. “Say Mr. Maynard and Mr.
Palmer.” As Mammy opened the door still further he entered the small
anteroom just as Marian Van Ness appeared in the doorway of her parlor.
There was a slight pause of uncertainty in her manner, at least one of
the men judged so, before she advanced to greet them.

“Come in,” she said and led the way into the parlor. Evelyn, sitting
with René La Montagne on the sofa, looked up with some alarm at Palmer,
but a glimpse of Maynard just behind him brought a quick smile of
pleasure in its train.

La Montagne, springing to his feet, hailed Maynard with a joyous
exclamation.

“Ah, _mon ami_, well met!” He shook Maynard’s hand with effusion. “How
is it with you?”

“Well, René.” Maynard’s eyes twinkled as he caught Evelyn’s embarrassed
greeting of Palmer and the older man’s scowl as he acknowledged with
scant courtesy Marian’s introduction to the French officer. Palmer
had not anticipated seeing Evelyn, but with the assurance which
characterized all his actions, he promptly took the seat by her side
left vacant by La Montagne and addressed her in so low a tone that the
others were left to chatter together.

For the first five minutes La Montagne bore the brunt of making
conversation and Maynard improved the opportunity to silently observe
the attractive room in which they sat, but even as he studied the few
good paintings and pictures on the walls his eyes turned back with
ever quickening interest to Marian who, in her simple evening gown,
engrossed his attention. Her charm, however, did not lie in the perfect
fit of her gown, her dark eyes and their long lashes, or the soft
pink of her cheeks which deepened and paled as she talked, but in an
indefinite something called, for want of a better name, personality.

“We were just discussing you, Mr. Maynard,” she said, catching his eye
as he again looked at her. “I have persuaded Evelyn and Captain La
Montagne to take part in a Red Cross benefit tableau and play to be
given Saturday at the Belasco, and Evelyn wondered if you would aid us
with suggestions.”

“I shall be delighted to,” was Maynard’s quick response. “What are the
tableaux to be?”

“Patriotic scenes and representations of our heroic Allies,” explained
Marian hurriedly; she had been quick to perceive La Montagne’s restless
glances at Evelyn and his evident anger at the prolonged tête-à-tête
which Palmer was having with her. She raised her voice as she turned
her chair slightly nearer the sofa, “I already have your costume
ordered, Evelyn; your tableau will not require much rehearsing.”

“I’ll ask Mother if I may take part,” replied Evelyn, glad of an
opportunity to make the conversation general. She recalled her
confidences of the morning to La Montagne regarding Palmer, and to
flaunt an apparent flirtation in the face of her French lover was
repugnant to her frank and loyal nature. “All fashionable Washington is
taking part in the benefit, Mr. Maynard; won’t you help us?”

“I certainly will.” Maynard smiled at the enthusiasm with which she put
the question. “Why not give me a part?”

“You!” Evelyn’s eyes opened wide. “My goodness, we would be afraid to
act with you--the girls would all be stricken dumb.”

“Let me have the mute’s part,” laughed Maynard. “Really, I am not so
terrifying, am I?” appealing directly to Marian.

“Not so very,” she responded a trifle absently. “The play is trite,
some society hodge-podge and not--not,” she stumbled in her speech and
continued quickly, “not worthy your histrionic talent, Mr. Maynard,
but there is a tableau which, if you would undertake, would be a great
drawing card.”

“Put me down for it,” declared Maynard. “And let me know the hours
of rehearsal. How about you, Palmer; are you doing your bit in the
benefit?”

“I’m helping with the stage effects.” Palmer shrugged his shoulders
indifferently. “Not much work there, for the local theaters have loaned
all necessary scenery.”

“What part have you planned for me, Madame Van Ness?” asked La Montagne
while his eyes eagerly sought Evelyn, who answered his question with a
saucy smile.

“I hear you are to sing the ‘_Marseillaise_,’” she said. “Now, don’t
refuse.”

“Refuse? I?” La Montagne would have risen and gone to her, but the
pressure of Maynard’s foot on his under the table recalled the
excitable Frenchman to the fact that he and Evelyn were not alone. “I
will do anything,” he announced. “I but await orders.”

“That is what we all do these days,” broke in Maynard. He glanced at
Palmer and at La Montagne; would Palmer make the first move to go, or
was he waiting for him to do so? Evelyn’s presence complicated the
situation; he did not wish to tell her that her step-father had been
shot and narrowly escaped death; nor did he wish La Montagne to leave
before he could question him as to his presence in the corridor outside
Palmer’s open hall door just after the attempted assassination. He,
himself, could not go without offering to see Evelyn home, and courtesy
demanded that he wait for her to make the first move to leave. For all
his self-control Maynard was conscious of a desire to throttle Palmer
who, having captured the conversational ball, was keeping it rolling
by talking every instant. Maynard wondered if Palmer had forgotten the
errand which had brought them there in his absorption in Evelyn and his
endeavor to monopolize her.

Maynard rested his elbow on a mahogany table by which he sat, but his
elbow slipped on the polished surface and a shower of papers, dislodged
by his sudden movement, slid to the floor. With a quick word of apology
he stooped to pick them up, La Montagne lending his assistance.

“It is really my fault,” exclaimed Evelyn who had turned to see what
the commotion was about. “I had no business to leave your papers
there, Marian.”

“My papers!” echoed Marian. “What papers do you refer to, Evelyn?”

“Why those Captain La Montagne asked me to return to you.” Evelyn bit
her lip; she had spoken hastily, forgetting that she had decided to
tell no one of meeting La Montagne in Potomac Park that morning. Palmer
would be very likely to tell her mother or worse, her step-father.
Again Evelyn bit her lip in vexation.

“They are the papers I carried home for you and carelessly left them in
my tunic, Madame,” explained La Montagne. “I, fearing I might not meet
you so immediately, asked Miss Preston that she take them in charge.
I trust my walk-away with the papers did not distress you, Madame Van
Ness?”

Marian’s smile was very charming. “You have not inconvenienced me,”
she said. “The papers were unimportant. Must you be going?” she added
swiftly, seeing Palmer rise. The architect, surprised by the question,
stared at her in some confusion; he had simply risen because he was too
nervous to sit still longer. Maynard, mistaking Palmer’s confusion for
hesitancy, rose also.

“We must be off,” he said. “Just dropped in for a friendly chat. Can’t
I see you home, Evelyn?”

“Thanks, Mr. Maynard, but I am spending the night with Marian. Are you
going also?” as La Montagne seeing the two men remained standing, rose
to his feet. Before the Frenchman could answer her question, Maynard
spoke for him.

“We are going to carry off René,” he laughed. “Don’t begrudge us the
privilege of a talk about France, Evelyn; I have messages for La
Montagne, Mrs. Van Ness.” His direct gaze held hers. “I hope very
soon to be a neighbor of yours as Palmer tells me there is a vacant
apartment in the building. Will you let me come and see you again?”

Marian held out her hand; it remained but a second in his strong
clasp, then was withdrawn. “I shall always be happy to see you and Mr.
Palmer,” she announced, and the inclusion of Palmer’s name robbed the
message of any special cordiality to Maynard alone.

Palmer’s reply was mingled with his good-byes to Evelyn; he
was determined to have the last word with her, but La Montagne
out-maneuvered him and, just as the other men stepped into the
corridor, he whisked back into the apartment, to return a second later
to the corridor smiling happily.

“Pardon!” he exclaimed blandly. “Shall we take the elevator or walk?”

“Walk,” jerked out Palmer, his temper getting the upper hand, and La
Montagne’s eyebrows rose as he glanced significantly at Maynard. He
said nothing more, however, and accompanied his companions in silence
to the next floor where Palmer halted.

“Will you please explain,” he began, “why you stopped at the door of my
apartment earlier this evening?”

“To inquire the direction of Madame Van Ness’ apartment.” La Montagne
glanced at him in mild surprise. “I told you so when you questioned me
before.”

“So you did; but you did not tell me why you walked into my apartment
and out on the balcony,” retorted Palmer.

“But I did no such action,” La Montagne looked in bewilderment at
Maynard standing silently by them.

“Tell us, La Montagne,” began Maynard hurriedly, and thereby checking
Palmer’s next question, “did you find the front door of the apartment
ajar?”

“Do you mean opened?” Maynard nodded. “But yes, and hearing voices
inside I thought to inquire my way.”

“Inquire your way,” repeated Palmer mechanically. “I have seen you
often this autumn going upstairs in this building.”

“True, to visit my friend, Major Jean,” calmly. “He left to-day.” La
Montague looked more closely at Maynard and Palmer and their serious
manner surprised him. “I fear I unintentionally intruded by stopping
at your door,” he said haughtily, as he straightened himself. “I would
not have risked disturbing you, but that I saw a man leave your door a
second before.”

“A man!” Palmer came closer. “Did you see who he was?”

“I called to him to wait,” went on La Montagne, not answering the
question directly. “But he did not evidently hear my hail or my
question regarding Madame Van Ness’ apartment, for he did not stop.”

Maynard, listening with eager attention, looked his disappointment.

“Have you no idea who the man was?” he demanded. “It’s important, René;
can you not describe the man?”

“Only that he wore the costume of a chauffeur,” responded the French
officer. “I took him to be a taxi-driver.”




CHAPTER IX

THE TELEGRAM


JONES, on his way up the stairs to the housekeeper’s suite of rooms
on the third floor, was startled by the unexpected appearance of Mrs.
Burnham at his elbow. Absorbed in carrying the heavily laden tray
without spilling its contents he had failed to hear her footstep on the
stair behind him.

“It strikes me, Jones, that you have a hearty meal there for a sick
woman,” she remarked, inspecting the hot dishes with a critical eye.

“Mrs. Ward sent down word she particularly wanted a steak and all the
rest,” stammered Jones. “Cook and I just carried out her orders, ma’am.
Shall I take off any of the dishes?”

“Oh, no; see that Mrs. Ward has every attention, Jones. I was only
wondering----” Mrs. Burnham paused thoughtfully; the housekeeper was
indulging in a very substantial meal for one who claimed to be a
seriously ill woman. “Carry the tray to Mrs. Ward, Jones, but see that
you do not mention my comment upon her appetite.”

“Yes, ma’am, certainly, ma’am,” stuttered Jones and hurried on his way.
He stood in great awe of Mrs. Burnham, whose caustic comments when she
found him careless in his work had made an indelible impression.

Jones’ tap at the housekeeper’s door brought a pretty chambermaid
who dimpled into a smile at sight of him. They had no opportunity to
exchange a word, for Mrs. Ward called to her to take the tray and shut
the door.

“Put the tray here,” she directed, tapping the chair by her bed. “That
will do,” she added a moment later as the maid arranged the dishes
within easy reach of her hand. “Thank you, don’t wait any longer.”

Waiting until the pretty chambermaid had disappeared into the adjoining
room, Mrs. Ward listened until her sharp ears caught the click of the
latch of her sitting room door and convinced her that she was alone.
Raising herself on her elbow she proceeded to eat with avidity. She had
just finished the last morsel of bread when the door of her bedroom
opened and Mrs. Burnham walked in.

“Good morning, Matilda,” she said cheerily. “Glad to see you are so
much better.”

Mrs. Ward settled back on her pillow and pulled the bedclothes up about
her throat.

“Good morning,” she replied. “It’s very good of you to come and see
me so early in the morning.” Mrs. Burnham, who was not noted for
early rising, flushed at the housekeeper’s insolent air; she was a
woman, however, who carried the war into Africa when occasion arose,
and discourtesy from a subordinate or servant instantly aroused her
resentment.

“I expected to find you up, Matilda,” she said. “Dr. Hayden told me
last evening that he had crossed you off his list of sick patients.”

“I know how I feel better than Dr. Hayden,” responded Mrs. Ward
sullenly. “I am not able to work; I am as weak as a kitten.”

“Staying in bed won’t strengthen you,” answered Mrs. Burnham
practically. “Come, be sensible, follow Dr. Hayden’s orders.”

“I shan’t.”

“But, Matilda, you can’t stay in bed----”

“I can, too; until I am strong enough to get up,” with sullen anger.
“I need nourishing food and rest. I’ve worked hard all summer, Mrs.
Burnham; surely you don’t begrudge me a few crumbs?”

Mrs. Burnham eyed her wrathfully. “You can hardly call your breakfast
a ‘few crumbs,’” she retorted, pointing to the empty dishes. “You have
licked the platters clean, Matilda,” a spark of humor lighting her
eyes. “What nonsense! Of course, I don’t begrudge you all the good
cooking you require, and a nurse if necessary; but I do object to your
malingering.”

“I am not malingering.”

“Oh, yes, you are,” with stern emphasis. “And I want to know _why_?”

Mrs. Ward clutched the bedclothes, but a look at Mrs. Burnham’s face
made her change her angry answer to a more wheedling tone than she had
intended using.

“After all my years of faithful service you come and accuse me of
that,” she began. “I wouldn’t ’a’ thought it of you, Mrs. Burnham.” Her
face worked and a few tears brimmed over her eyelids and ran down on
the coverlet.

“Stop crying!” exclaimed Mrs. Burnham. “I have no intention of hurting
your feelings, Matilda; I came here to get facts.”

“Facts about what?”

“About what transpired in this house on Monday and Tuesday last.”

Mrs. Ward shook her head. “I can’t help you there,” she replied. “I’m
plain puzzled myself.”

“There is always a solution to a puzzle,” responded Mrs. Burnham.
“Answer my questions and we will find it. At what hour did you reach
this house?”

“Tuesday afternoon, just after Miss Evelyn found the dead man.”

“And where did you spend Monday night?” Mrs. Ward’s eyelids flickered
and Mrs. Burnham continued tranquilly: “I am quite aware you left
Chelsea Monday afternoon, Matilda.”

Mrs. Ward made no response and after a lengthened pause Mrs. Burnham
spoke again. “Why did you come to Washington twenty-four hours before
you were told to?”

“I didn’t,” replied Mrs. Ward hotly. “I had to go to Baltimore on
business; the wire came for me after you had left for New York. The
servants all had their Washington railroad tickets for Tuesday and
the house was even then in order; so I didn’t see any harm, ma’am, in
leaving Jones to close the house. You’ve always trusted him.”

“I still trust Jones,” dryly. “That is not the point. I wish to know
why you displayed so much emotion on the discovery of the dead man in
our library.”

For answer Mrs. Ward felt about under the bolster and produced a much
thumbed telegram which she handed to Mrs. Burnham who read the brief
message it bore:

  _Mother worse. Come._

                       _Annie._

“Who is Annie?” she inquired, handing back the telegram.

“My niece.” Mrs. Ward wiped her eyes with a corner of the sheet and
thereby concealed from view a red and green string which had slipped
from under the bolster in her exertions of searching for the telegram.
“My sister died just after I got there.” Mrs. Ward was talking volubly
as she pushed the string safely beneath the bedclothes. “Her death was
a great grief; and on top of it, I found a dead man here--it clean
bowled me over, for I’m not as young as I was, Mrs. Burnham.”

Mrs. Burnham considered her housekeeper in silence; she was certainly
thinner than she had seen her in some time, and there were heavy lines
in her face which had not been in evidence a week before. Another look
at the empty breakfast dishes convinced Mrs. Burnham that the two
spots of color in Mrs. Ward’s cheeks came from temper and not from
temperature, unless so much food had made her ill. Had she really eaten
it all herself? From where she sat Mrs. Burnham had a good view under
the four-post bed occupied by the housekeeper; certainly no one was
concealed there. Bending a little forward, she managed to see inside
of the closet, the door of which stood partly open; no one was there.
Mrs. Burnham sighed. She did not like mysteries, her forte did not lie
in solving them. The bedroom and the sitting room and bath opening from
it, all of which were given over to Mrs. Ward, were just above her
boudoir, and the room’s shape, like the boudoir, was octagonal.

A discreet knock on the door broke the silence, and in response to Mrs.
Burnham’s “Come in,” the pretty chambermaid entered.

“Mr. Burnham wishes to see you, ma’am,” she said.

Mrs. Burnham rose instantly. “Don’t go, Cora; I want you to help Mrs.
Ward dress.” Meeting the housekeeper’s irate glare, she continued
unruffled: “It is too weakening for you to remain in bed, Matilda, Cora
will bring your meals to your sitting room to-day. To-morrow--we’ll see
how you are to-morrow,” and with a friendly wave of her hand she left
the housekeeper glaring indignantly at the smiling Cora.

Mrs. Burnham went at once to her husband’s bedroom; not finding him
there, she went to her own room, and from there to her boudoir. Her
husband dropped the newspaper he was reading and looked up impatiently
as she appeared.

“Upon my word, Peter,” she said. “Dr. Hayden orders you to stay in bed
and Matilda to get up; instead of which you get up and she stays in
bed--nice obedient patients you are!”

“Hayden’s a fool!” growled Burnham. “I must go down to Palmer’s office
this morning, Lillian; now, I don’t wish to discuss the matter with
you, just call a taxi--there’s a dear.”

Instead of complying with his request Mrs. Burnham sat down in the
nearest chair and contemplated her husband.

“Dan Maynard has gone to see Jim and is bringing him back to lunch,”
she said. “You will have to possess your soul in patience until then,
Peter. I have no idea of letting you go out with your temperature.”

“Temperature! Fiddle-sticks! I am just a bit feverish.” Burnham stroked
his cheek until he became conscious that his wife was regarding the
strip of plaster across his face with interest. “I scratched myself in
shaving,” he explained hurriedly. “I wish you wouldn’t sit there and
look at me.”

Mrs. Burnham laughed as she leaned forward and picked up her knitting
bag from her sewing table. “I am afraid, my dear, you will have to
learn to control your nerves; especially if you want to shave yourself
and preserve your good looks at the same time,” she remarked kindly.
“Go on reading your paper, Peter.”

Burnham kicked the paper contemptuously. “Nothing in it but war news,”
he said. “I’m sick of the war.”

“So are we all, but we are going to win it just the same.” Mrs.
Burnham shook the khaki sweater she was knitting with vigor. “Every
stitch helps.”

“Hump! You knitters remind me of the women who sat at the foot of the
guillotine in the French Revolution,” grumbled Burnham. “I never saw a
woman yet who wasn’t attracted by crime and war is a gigantic crime.”

“Peter!” Mrs. Burnham straightened up and her indignation was plainly
manifest. “You must be out of your head; don’t utter any more such
remarks in my presence.”

“Well, why don’t you order that taxi-cab?”

“Because Dr. Hayden said you were to--What is it, Jones?” she broke off
to ask as the butler came into the room.

“Mr. Palmer, ma’am.”

“Ask him up.” Burnham half rose, then sank back and his wife observed
his sudden pallor with concern. “Would you mind leaving us together,
Lillian? I want to speak to Palmer confidentially about my--my affairs.”

“Are you strong enough? Better wait, Peter,” she coaxed; an obstinate
frown was her only answer, and before she could raise further
objections James Palmer was ushered in by Jones.

“You come at an opportune moment, James,” exclaimed Mrs. Burnham,
shaking hands cordially. “Peter was determined to go and see you,
notwithstanding I told him Dan Maynard would bring you back to lunch
with us.”

Burnham, who had darted an impatient look at his wife, pointed to a
chair near the one he occupied.

“Sit down,” he suggested. “The police have barred us from the library;
most insulting, I call it,” he added bitterly. “So we shall have to
smoke here; if you don’t mind, Lillian?”

“Not in the least.” Contrary to her husband’s hopes Mrs. Burnham made
no motion to leave the room, but instead went placidly on with her
knitting. “Did you meet Evelyn downstairs, James?”

“No. I haven’t seen her since last night, when, calling on Mrs. Van
Ness, I found her there.” Palmer paused to pick up the newspaper which
lay at his feet, and folded it neatly before laying it on the sewing
table.

“Mrs. Van Ness,” repeated Burnham thoughtfully. “Oh, didn’t Captain La
Montagne mention last night that he was looking for Marian Van Ness’
apartment, Palmer?”

“Yes.” Palmer looked over at Burnham and their glances met. “The
captain was with Mrs. Van Ness and Evelyn when I called there.”

Mrs. Burnham missed a stitch and when she again looked up from her
knitting she found her husband gazing out of the window and Palmer
just lighting a cigarette.

“With your permission,” he said, holding it up.

“Certainly; I don’t object to tobacco smoke.” She was about to resume
her knitting when her glance strayed through the open door by which she
sat and she recognized Dr. Hayden coming down the hall. “Excuse me,”
she exclaimed, “I’ll be back in a moment,” and she slipped out of the
room before her husband looked around.

Hurrying down the hall Mrs. Burnham encountered Hayden near her bedroom
and with a bare word of greeting opened the door and led him inside the
room.

“You have two rebellious patients, Doctor; my husband and Mrs. Ward,”
she began.

“Mrs. Ward shouldn’t give you any concern,” replied Hayden. “She has
recovered; but your husband had a touch of fever last night which may
make him a bit, eh, fractious,” hesitating for a word as he saw how
worried she was.

“Oh, I am not anxious about Peter, I can manage him,” she said
confidently. “It’s Mrs. Ward; why is she malingering?”

Hayden looked at her in surprise. “Is she?”

“In my opinion she is,” with emphasis. “Wait; I’ve noticed that
whenever the coroner or the detectives wish to interview her, Mrs. Ward
always becomes worse or says so, and just to satisfy myself I examined
the nurse’s chart and found nothing on it to indicate such changes in
her condition. To-day she refused to get up.”

“She did? But I told her last night----”

“I know, I heard you. She ate a large and substantial breakfast and
then had the effrontery to tell me that she was too weak to get out
of bed. I know a sick woman when I see one,” ended Mrs. Burnham with
vigor, “and in my opinion she is no invalid.”

“I shall talk to her,” and Hayden’s square jaw became more pronounced.

“Do, please. Wait just a moment; why is she malingering?”

Hayden pondered the question before answering. “It may be, considering
her emotion after the discovery of the dead man and her attempts to
avoid interviews with Coroner Penfield and Detective Mitchell, that she
hopes to get out of attending the inquest as a witness.”

“I believe you’ve hit it,” ejaculated Mrs. Burnham. “I’ve been
questioning Mrs. Ward this morning about her actions on Monday and
Tuesday, and to be quite frank her answers did not ring true.”

“Ah, indeed. What did she say?”

“She stated that she left Chelsea a day earlier than she had intended
on the receipt of a telegram from her niece saying her mother was ill.
Mrs. Ward went on to say that her sister died shortly after her arrival
in Baltimore, and the shock of finding a dead man here on top of her
grief for her sister upset her.”

Hayden listened with close attention. “Did you see the telegram?”

“I did.”

“Then Mrs. Ward has told a straight story apparently.” Mrs. Burnham’s
expression grew peculiar and he asked quickly, “Have you reason to
doubt it?”

“Only this,” she hesitated. “Please keep this confidential. When I
engaged Mrs. Ward as my housekeeper three years ago she distinctly told
me that she had no relatives living in this country.”




CHAPTER X

“SEDITIOUS UTTERANCES”


PALMER, fussing among his blue prints, looked up as his stenographer
ushered Dan Maynard into his office.

“Sit down,” he exclaimed heartily. “I was afraid you wouldn’t come back
after all; you need not wait, Miss Hall,” and the stenographer walked
out, closing the door behind her. Palmer swung his swivel-chair about
so as to face his visitor who had selected a seat near the desk. “I
stopped at the Burnhams’ particularly to see you, but found you had
left to come here.”

“Too bad,” commented Maynard. “I should have telephoned first before
going to the rehearsal of the tableaux at the Belasco, to ask you to
wait for me; my stupidity.” He leaned a little nearer. “Have you seen
the taxi-driver?”

“Not yet.” Maynard’s face fell; he had jumped to the conclusion from
Palmer’s manner that he had news of importance. “The Potomac Taxi
Company reported Sam was engaged to motor a party out to Camp Meade;
they are expected back this evening.” Palmer drummed his fingers on
the desk a second, then asked abruptly: “Did you tell Mrs. Burnham
about the attempt to shoot her husband last night?”

“No.” Maynard balanced his hat on his knee with nice exactness.
“Burnham asked me not to. And to be quite candid, after I had helped
Dr. Hayden put him to bed I departed and left the doctor to tell as
much as he thought fit to Mrs. Burnham when she returned.”

“Was she out?”

“Yes, gone to some Red Cross meeting, so Jones told us.” Maynard smiled
broadly. “I rather imagine from what was said at breakfast this morning
that Mrs. Burnham laid her husband’s condition to too convivial a
disposition.”

Palmer did not smile. “I am afraid she has frequent occasion to think
that and with reason. Frankly, Maynard, Burnham has been going at a
pretty lively clip during the past six months and unless he pulls up he
will be over the precipice,” he said soberly.

Maynard’s mirth vanished. “I am sorry to hear it,” he declared.
“Burnham is a good fellow at bottom, and his wife,” Maynard stooped
over to pick up his hat which had finally over-balanced and rolled to
the floor. There was a pause before he again spoke. “It must be doubly
hard on Mrs. Burnham; aside from her affection for her husband she
is a proud woman, and to have her affairs discussed in public must go
against the grain.”

It was Palmer’s turn to smile. “You weren’t here when their engagement
was announced? Well, my good fellow, Mrs. Burnham was then the
storm-center of criticism, not to say amusement. No, I can’t believe
the public’s opinion, good or bad, influences her actions. She is a law
unto herself.”

Maynard shook his head in unbelief. “What part of the country does she
hail from?” he asked.

“New York; she comes of old Knickerbocker stock.” Palmer tilted
back in his chair. “Her daughter is like her in looks as well as in
disposition; she also has a will of her own,” he sighed, then spoke
carefully, choosing his words. “I hope to marry her.”

Maynard looked at him, but his grave manner precluded jesting. After
all there was not so much difference in Evelyn’s and Palmer’s ages as
to make the match unsuitable. Palmer had money, influence, and came
of a family long distinguished in his country’s annals. Undoubtedly
society’s verdict would commend such an engagement, and yet--Maynard’s
thoughts reverted to René La Montague whose aristocratic carriage and
good looks were in vast contrast to the square-jawed bulldog type of
manhood lolling before him in a swivel-chair.

“I wish you all success in your courtship,” said Maynard, suddenly
conscious that an answer was expected of him. “Do Burnham and his wife
approve?”

“Burnham does.” Palmer examined his fingernails critically. “I have
never been able to get an opinion out of Mrs. Burnham; she can be very
evasive when it suits her.”

“Well, the main thing is to win the girl’s affections,” remarked
Maynard. “Don’t worry about the mother, her opinion is of secondary
importance these days in selecting a husband.”

“Not in this case; Evelyn loses her fortune if she marries without her
mother’s consent.”

“Ah, indeed? And who inherits the fortune in case Mrs. Burnham’s
consent is withheld?”

“Mrs. Burnham.”

“Oh!” Maynard stared blankly at the architect. “An unjust will,” he
said gravely. “It is unfair to Evelyn, very; she has either to marry to
please her mother, or select a wealthy man; or----” He paused.

“Or what?”

“Choose love in a cottage.”

Palmer shrugged his shoulders. “To a girl brought up to expect every
luxury and never count the cost, love in a cottage hasn’t a great
appeal--except in the movies. I know I shan’t have an easy time winning
Evelyn,” he admitted in a sudden burst of candor. “She is very popular,
but in the end,” his jaw snapped, “Americans should marry Americans.”

Maynard’s eyebrows rose slightly; so Palmer was aware of René La
Montagne’s courtship of Evelyn! Had he gained that information the
night before or was the affair common gossip?

“Heard anything further about the mysterious dead man?” he inquired.

Palmer looked glum. “Not a thing,” he admitted. “I called up Coroner
Penfield to-day at Burnham’s request to ask when the inquest would
take place, and was told that a preliminary examination had been held,
the body put in a receiving vault, and upon further developments the
inquest will be continued.”

Maynard whistled. “The delay is unusual; they must be waiting for
witnesses.”

“Or to identify the dead man.”

“Have they made any progress in solving that problem?”

“The coroner did not say.”

“Strange that a man can drop out of existence and not be missed or
inquired about,” mused Maynard. “The dead man must have had some
friends or relatives.”

“Perhaps they are not in this country.”

“They can always cable.”

Palmer tilted still farther back in his chair. “Has it occurred to you
that the dead man’s friends or relatives may reside in Germany?”

“Do you mean that the dead man was a German spy?”

“Yes.” Palmer sat upright. “That to me is the only explanation for the,
as you mention, inexplicable fact that no one has reported such a man
as missing to the police or made inquiries for him. Coroner Penfield
states his photograph has been circulated with a minute description of
his clothes.”

“Has the photograph appeared in the newspapers?”

“I think not. From all accounts he must have looked pretty gruesome,
Maynard; the newspapers wouldn’t want to publish a picture of a dead
man sitting in a chair. It isn’t done.”

“Pretty good publicity if it were done,” retorted Maynard bluntly.
“Have you told Detective Mitchell your theory?”

“Not yet.” Palmer hesitated. “Let the police work out their theories
first. There’s another reason,” and he smiled. “Washington is spy-mad;
and I don’t want to be classed among the men and women who write
anonymously to the Department of Justice or telephone the Secret
Service regarding the, to them, suspicious behavior of their neighbors.
Hot air, most of it.”

“Better hot air than run the risk of letting a spy escape through not
reporting him,” remarked Maynard. “If I were you, Palmer, I wouldn’t
lose any time in seeing Mitchell, and suggest to him that the Secret
Service take a hand in the game.”

“They may be working from that end already,” answered Palmer
doubtfully. “However, if you think it best I’ll step over to the
Treasury Department and see Chief Connor. Would you like to come along?”

“Very much.”

“Good.” Palmer swung about and gathered up the blue prints of all
sizes which littered his desk. He was in the act of placing them in
his drawer when a sharp rap followed instantly by the entrance of his
office boy interrupted him.

“General West is awaitin’ in his car to speak to yo’,” announced the
darkey. “The General’s in a pow’ful big hurry an’ he wants ter see the
plan for the new buildin’ for the Ordnance.”

Palmer selected four blue prints. “I’ll be right back,” he told Maynard
and hurried out into the hall.

Left to himself Maynard gazed about the room and then back at the
disorderly desk. Moving quietly over to it he scanned several drawings
and turned them over. As he did so his eye fell on a small chess
problem diagram half buried among the larger prints and he picked it up
to examine more closely. With lightning speed his trained eyes studied
the diagram and the message beneath it:

[Illustration: WHITE TO PLAY AND MATE IN TWO MOVES.]

A second more and the diagram was tucked safely in an inner pocket
as approaching footsteps heralded the return of Palmer, and when he
entered Maynard was indolently reading the evening newspaper.

“There’s no pleasing some people,” fumed the architect, tossing the
plans he carried into the open drawer and thrusting the others pell
mell on top of them he slammed the drawer shut and locked it securely.
“We’ve got to hurry, Maynard, to get to the Treasury Department before
closing time. Come on.”

Stopping only long enough to push down the safety lock of the door
to his private office and cautioning the boy to take all telephone
messages, Palmer hurried the actor into the street.

“Not a car in sight,” he exclaimed looking up the street. “We’ll have
to walk; all Washington’s doing it,” he added, laughing, and the two
men strode along, unconsciously quickening their pace as they crossed
Lafayette Square into Pennsylvania Avenue. Maynard on reaching the
north front of the Treasury swerved toward the long row of steps
leading to the building but Palmer stopped him.

“Only one entrance used now-a-days,” he explained. “That on Fifteenth
Street, this way,” and they hurried along Pennsylvania Avenue and
around the corner.

Paying no attention to the sign “No Visitors Allowed” which hung
conspicuously near the only open door, Palmer led the way inside the
building and was promptly stopped by an attendant, whose peremptory
manner thawed somewhat at sight of Palmer’s visiting card.

“I’ll take you to the Captain of the Watch,” he said. “Here, Tom,” and
signing to another attendant to take his place, he escorted them into a
small room a few steps away. They had to wait until the Captain of the
Watch had interviewed the three men and two women who had reached the
room ahead of them. At Palmer’s request to see the Chief of the Secret
Service the Captain smiled.

“Won’t an assistant do?” he asked. “The Chief’s somewhat busy.”

Palmer, having made up his mind to see Chief Connor, was not to be
sidetracked.

“No,” he said decidedly. “I won’t detain the Chief but a minute; it’s
important. Here’s my card,” and he laid it on the desk. The Captain
pushed over some printed blanks.

“Fill out these forms,” he directed, “both you and your friend,” and he
picked up his telephone receiver and held a subdued conversation which
he discontinued when Palmer and Maynard handed him the filled-in blanks
bearing their signatures and addresses. A touch of the push button and
the attendant returned.

“Take these gentlemen upstairs,” the Captain directed and turned to
interview some newcomers.

As Maynard accompanied Palmer and their guide up the winding staircase
and through the broad corridors he noted the numerous uniformed
attendants pacing up and down. In the outer office of the Secret
Service Headquarters they were met by a polite secretary who invited
them to be seated and confide their business to him, which Palmer,
his obstinacy aroused by what his _amour propre_ took to be a slight
in shelving him with a subordinate when he desired to see the Chief,
declined to do.

The secretary’s patience was wearing thin under Palmer’s irritating
manner and he was about to close the interview when the swing door
leading to an inner office opened and Detective Mitchell stepped out.
He halted at sight of Maynard, who sat with his back toward the door,
and disappeared into the room again. An instant later the call bell
buzzed and, excusing himself, the secretary stepped inside the inner
room.

“Nice business keeping a man of my standing waiting in an anteroom,”
fumed Palmer, turning to Maynard, but the latter’s rejoinder was lost
by the return of the secretary.

“Will you and your friend step this way, Mr. Palmer?” he said. “Chief
Connor will see you.”

Palmer’s walk past the secretary was indicative of his feeling of
triumph; he had gained his point. Maynard, following close at his
heels, smothered a smile as they reached the large table near the
window where sat Chief Connor with Detective Mitchell standing by him.

“Glad to see you, Mr. Palmer,” said Connor cordially, as Palmer
introduced himself and then mentioned Maynard’s name. Chief Connor
rose and extended his hand to the famous actor. “Won’t you sit here?”
indicating chairs to his right. “You already know Mitchell, I believe.”

Palmer nodded curtly; he was somewhat taken aback at the presence of
the detective; he would rather have seen the Chief alone. Maynard, who
had acknowledged Mitchell’s greeting courteously, waited for Palmer to
open the interview, but it was not until Connor remarked pleasantly:
“Well, gentlemen,” that Palmer addressed him.

“I am convinced that the man found dead in Burnham’s library on Tuesday
afternoon was a German spy,” he stated. “I presume from the presence
of Detective Mitchell, who is in charge of the investigation of that
mystery, that you are working along the same lines.”

Connor’s reply took the form of a question. “What leads you to think
the man was a German spy?”

“The fact that no inquiries have been made for him looks to me as if
his relatives and friends are in Germany,” explained Palmer. “If he had
been of any nationality at peace with us, or an American citizen, his
absence would have been reported and the aid of the police sought.”

Connor nodded slightly. “That is a reasonable argument, Mr. Palmer, but
it is not evidence. Any one who dies suddenly these days is a German
spy--in the public’s opinion.” The Chief’s stern mouth relaxed into a
faint smile. “We must have more to go upon than that.”

Maynard looked across at Detective Mitchell. “Have you identified the
man?”

There was a faint pause before Mitchell answered, “No, but our
finger-print experts will make a final report soon,” he answered.

“Slow work,” observed Palmer, and Chief Connor saw the color steal up
in the detective’s face.

“Slow work--but sure,” he remarked with emphasis. “Don’t give yourself
too much concern, Mr. Palmer, the police will solve the riddle. And it
is a case presenting some unique features, I’ll admit.”

“It does,” exclaimed Mitchell eagerly. “Here we have a man, without
an identifying mark on his person or his clothes, poisoned sometime
between two and three Tuesday morning and his body not found until
twelve hours later, and then located in a room which an hour previous
had not contained his body,” Mitchell rumpled his hair, “and no one in
the house but Miss Evelyn Preston who arrived that morning. It’s a very
pretty problem.”

“There was some one else in the house beside Miss Preston,” replied
Palmer warmly. “The man who carried the dead body into the library.
It’s a great pity the house wasn’t searched instantly from top to
bottom.”

“True,” agreed Maynard. “But none of us, the coroner and Dr. Hayden
included, realized there might be a murderer concealed on the premises
until after Penfield’s statement that the man had been dead about
twelve hours, and Miss Preston’s immediate declaration that some one
had rung the library bell just before she came upstairs from the
kitchen and found the dead man sitting there. Our search then, of
course, proved fruitless; the man had made good his escape.”

“There wasn’t a trace of any one having been in the house except Miss
Preston,” added Mitchell. “We searched the entire place.”

“That bears out Burnham’s theory that the man was murdered elsewhere
and carried into his house,” remarked Palmer.

“It is an interesting theory,” commented Chief Connor, and turned to
Palmer directly. “I understand, Mr. Palmer, that you are Mr. Burnham’s
most intimate friend; can you tell me if he has any enemies?”

Palmer glanced involuntarily at Maynard. “I never heard any one
express hatred of Burnham,” he said, speaking slowly. “But he is not
particularly popular.”

“That bears out what I have heard, Chief,” broke in Mitchell.

“Yes.” Connor turned again to Palmer. “You have answered very
concisely, Mr. Palmer; now please tell me if you have heard Burnham
express animosity toward any one.”

Palmer moved restlessly. “That’s a hard question.”

“Why?”

“Because Burnham is very outspoken and frequently exaggerates his
feelings.”

“Mr. Palmer, I will be greatly obliged if you will answer directly;
does Burnham harbor animosity against any one?”

“Well, to be exact,” Palmer avoided Maynard’s eyes, “I believe he
dislikes René La Montagne.”

“René La Montagne?”

“Captain in the French Flying Corps, an ‘Ace,’” explained Maynard,
breaking into the conversation. “The dislike is all on Burnham’s
side; I have never heard La Montagne say anything disagreeable about
Burnham.” He paused, then added, “Burnham’s behavior is peculiar at
times, I understand.”

“So it appears,” replied Chief Connor dryly. “Mitchell has just
informed me that Burnham’s train reached Washington about one thirty
Tuesday morning.”

“It did?” Palmer sat up and stared at the speaker. “Why, Burnham
telephoned me Tuesday _night_ from Union Station that he had just
arrived.”

Maynard, the fingers of his right hand resting in his vest pocket,
thrust a paper deeper down inside the lining as he listened absorbedly
to the conversation.

“There is another point where you can help us, Mr. Palmer,” continued
Chief Connor. “Has Burnham in your presence ever uttered seditious and
disloyal sentiments?”

“Never!” Palmer’s denial was instant.

“Ah!” Chief Connor eyed his visitors sharply. “Your statement
contradicts letters received here in which it is charged that Burnham
is a pronounced pacifist.”

Palmer pushed back his chair and crossed his legs. “You said seditious
utterances,” he began. “Burnham has never made them before me, but I
have heard him state his pacifist views; that was before this country
went into the war. No one paid any attention to him.”

“One person did,” remarked Connor dryly. “Our correspondent.”

“And who is he?”

Chief Connor opened a drawer and took from a file a paper, evidently a
deposition as far as Maynard could make out from where he sat and the
angle at which Connor held the sheet.

“The name signed here,” continued the Chief of the Secret Service, “is
Adolphus Jones.”

“Adolphus Jones,” repeated Palmer. “Who is he?”

“The Burnhams’ butler--Jones,” answered Detective Mitchell.




CHAPTER XI

CONFLICTING CLUES


FIVE minutes later James Palmer and Dan Maynard stood on the steps of
the Treasury Department.

“It’s a rum go,” the former remarked. “Who’d have thought Jones, as
old and good a servant as he is, would have tried to get Burnham into
trouble by reporting him to the Secret Service? It shows we are all at
the mercy of some fool, spy-mad.”

Maynard’s eyes twinkled as he adjusted his tie which was slightly awry.
“It was our German spy theory regarding the dead man which took us to
see Chief Connor----”

“But we had some ground to go on,” interrupted Palmer. “Whereas, poor
Burnham never uttered any seditious sentiments, I am confident. That
old fool, Jones, has muddled things nicely.” They had approached the
corner of Pennsylvania Avenue and Fifteenth Street as they talked and
Palmer stopped at the curb. “Are you going to speak to Burnham about
Jones’ behavior?”

“Certainly not; Chief Connor requested us to mention it to no one.”
Maynard shot a questioning look at his companion who stood with one
foot in the street and the other on the curb stone.

“But it seems unfair to Burnham not to warn him that Jones is a
meddlesome, untrustworthy old fool,” objected Palmer. “After all,
Burnham is our friend.”

“And we can prove our friendship by holding our tongues,” replied
Maynard warmly. “Burnham seems laboring under a severe nervous strain;
it won’t take much more excitement to break him down. The Secret
Service will weed out the lies; Jones’ statements about his employer
will be taken for what they are worth; so don’t worry.”

Palmer frowned. “I don’t like it,” he said, shaking a puzzled head.
“However, while I’ll say nothing about the matter, I’ll keep my eye on
Jones. Are you coming over to the club?”

“Not now.” Maynard glanced up at the clock tower of the building
diagonally across the street from where they stood. “I have just time
to do several errands before the shops close. I’ll stop at the club on
the way home.”

“All right, be sure and look me up,” and Palmer dodged an on-coming
motor truck and hurried across the street.

Maynard again consulted the clock in the tower and then crossed over
to a drug store. Entering a telephone booth he finally succeeded in
getting the Burlington apartment; the Central there, however, informed
him that Captain René La Montagne had not returned and had not left
word when he would be in. A telephone call to the Frenchman’s office
elicited no more information. Where in the devil’s name was La Montagne?

Maynard left the drug store in a disgusted frame of mind and with the
question unanswered. He had spent the morning trying to find first
Palmer and then La Montagne in between attending the rehearsals for the
Red Cross benefit at the Belasco Theatre. His offer to take part in the
tableaux had been eagerly accepted and a telephone call before he left
the Burnhams’ had apprised him that his presence was very much needed
at the theater. He had hoped to find Evelyn and Marian rehearsing their
rôles, but neither had turned up, although he had waited long after
his tableau had been tried out and thereby missed his luncheon at
the Burnhams’! The thought of luncheon reminded him that he had been
exceedingly rude to Mrs. Burnham, having, in his absent-mindedness,
forgotten to telephone her that he would not be there for that meal.
Turning on his heel he walked up the street until he came to a florist;
after his errand there was completed he walked up H Street intending
to go to the club, but on reaching Connecticut Avenue he decided
to return home and started briskly off up the Avenue. As he crossed
Farragut Square he heard his name called and glancing around saw Evelyn
Preston sitting on one of the park benches. He quickened his steps and
sat down by her.

“You are just the person I want to see,” he announced. “Tell me where
I can find René La Montagne. I have tried both his office and his
apartment without success.”

“Then I am afraid I cannot help you,” she said. “René told me last
night that he might be called out of town for a short time; he said
that he could not be more explicit.”

“Oh!” Maynard drew his cane up and down the gravel path in deep
thought. As the silence lengthened Evelyn stole a glance at him; he was
certainly one of the handsomest men who had ever been a matinée idol.

“I want to ask you a question,” she began, and Maynard awoke from his
abstraction. “Why did you and James Palmer come into Marian’s apartment
last night?”

“To call on Mrs. Van Ness.”

“That is the obvious answer.” Evelyn’s color rose. “Now, don’t be
angry,” laying an appealing hand on his coat sleeve. “Didn’t James
Palmer come up there just to spy on me?”

Maynard smiled. “No. Frankly, we did not know you were there.”

“Oh!” ejaculated Evelyn. “Marian and I thought perhaps Mr. Burnham had
suggested your calling, not you personally,” coloring warmly as she
remembered her use of the word “spy,”--“but James Palmer.”

“So you think James Palmer wouldn’t be above spying?” Maynard twisted
about on the bench and faced her.

Evelyn nodded. “I don’t like him,” she admitted honestly. “I’ll admit
I’m prejudiced, but I couldn’t think, no matter what happened, any
worse of him than I do. He’s--he’s always under my feet.”

Maynard laughed outright. “And that’s what a man gets for being devoted
to a girl,” he said. “I declare, Evelyn, you are a trifle discouraging.”

“Don’t make fun of me.” Evelyn looked downcast. “You don’t know how
I have had James Palmer preached at me by my step-father;” she half
shuddered. “That’s why I didn’t spend the summer at home. Were you with
them all the evening?”

“With them?--with whom?”

“Mr. Burnham and James Palmer.”

“No, I only joined them at Palmer’s apartment about nine o’clock or a
little later.”

“Then you can depend upon it that Mr. Burnham asked James to call
on Marian last night just to find out if René La Montagne and I were
there.” Evelyn nodded her head wisely. “Marian and I were right in our
conclusions, I am sure.”

“Sorry, but you are wrong,” stated Maynard. “We called on her on
impulse so to speak,” he hesitated; no mention had been made to Evelyn
of the occurrences in Palmer’s apartment the night before and he could
not be more explicit regarding the reason for their visit to Marian’s
apartment. “What harm was done by Palmer seeing René calling on you and
Mrs. Van Ness?”

“He told Mother and she has forbidden my visiting Marian,” Evelyn
stamped her pretty foot. “It was perfectly horrid of James Palmer to go
and make trouble.” Her eyes filled with tears. “I am sitting here now
hoping to see Marian on her way from the State Department and tell her
of Mother’s edict.”

“It’s a shame!” There was honest indignation in Maynard’s voice.
“Suppose I try and persuade your mother to reconsider----”

“Would you--could you?” Evelyn was a trifle incoherent. “Oh, but _you_
can do anything. Do say a good word for René.”

“I will, indeed,” and Maynard, touched by her emotion, took her hand in
a firm clasp. “I will aid you in every possible way.”

Evelyn smiled through her tears. “Then will you see that this letter
reaches René?”

“I will; to-night if possible.” Maynard placed the envelope in an
inside pocket. “Tell me, Evelyn, did René appear agitated when he
reached Mrs. Van Ness’ apartment last night?”

“Agitated--no.” Evelyn laughed softly at a sudden recollection. “Only
pleasurably excited,” she added demurely, and Maynard chuckled.

“Can you tell me why Burnham dislikes René?” he asked.

“He hasn’t any grounds for disliking him,” retorted Evelyn loyally. “It
is just his natural cussedness.”

Again Maynard chuckled. “You don’t show any great fondness for your
step-father,” he said, and Evelyn colored, this time with indignation
as unhappy memories rose.

“Why should I?” she demanded. “He has tried repeatedly to prejudice
Mother against me. Oh, how could she marry him? She must have
remembered my dear splendid father.”

“There is no accounting for taste, Evelyn.” Maynard felt himself on
delicate ground; widening the breach between the Burnhams and Evelyn
would be like applying a match to a keg of gunpowder. “It didn’t strike
me that Burnham was such a bad sort when I first knew him.”

“You haven’t got him in the family,” exclaimed Evelyn shrewdly. “It
makes all the difference between tolerance and active dislike. I wish
Mother wasn’t so under his influence.”

“You think she is?”

“I do. I left her fretting about him because his temperature had gone
up and sending frantically all over town for Dr. Hayden.”

Maynard looked serious. “Has it occurred to you, Evelyn, that your
step-father is an ill man? Perhaps his irritability and peculiar
behavior is due to some chronic disorder.”

“I’ll ask Dr. Hayden to give him a liver pill.” Evelyn declined to take
her step-father’s health seriously. “He used to go out a great deal,
now he sits around the house hour after hour, doing nothing, or else
playing chess; he seems to live for his chess problems alone.”

“It is an absorbing study,” replied Maynard. “Do you know the game?”

“Indeed I don’t,” promptly. “One chess player in the family is quite
enough.” Evelyn’s active mind flew off at a tangent. “You missed a nice
row by not coming home for luncheon.”

“Row!” Maynard looked at her in astonishment. “I was unpardonably rude
not to telephone your mother that I was detained at the theater and not
to wait luncheon for me, but surely a row----”

“Oh, bless you, the row wasn’t about you,” Evelyn chuckled. “Dr.
Hayden read the riot act to Mrs. Ward and made her get up; she was
malingering, you know.”

“No, not really?” Maynard was all attention; he had ceased watching the
children playing about the base of the Farragut monument. “Have you had
a talk with Mrs. Ward since her illness?”

“I only exchanged a few words with her when I went to inquire how she
was,” answered Evelyn. “Matilda has always been a silent, morose woman,
a good worker, and for all her peculiarities she gets on well with the
servants.”

“Have you had all your servants a long time?”

Evelyn reflected before she answered. “The chambermaid and mother’s
maid and the second man are new; only came this summer; but Mrs. Ward
has been with us over three years, while Jones came over ten years ago.”

“Is Jones a trustworthy servant?”

“Well, rather,” Evelyn laughed merrily. “He is the oddest character.
Hasn’t he confided to you about the Missions and his ‘human derelicts’?”

“His what?”

“Reclaimed souls. A year ago mother got very much wrought up over
the ex-gamblers, ex-thieves, ex-swindlers--there may have been a few
ex-murderers among his friends, to whom he offered the hospitality
of our servants’ hall, so she suggested that the Lord had called him
to join a mission, and now he is entirely happy in his new field. He
levies contributions on us once and so often to help support it; I
shouldn’t be a bit surprised if mother has to adopt the mission in
order to keep Jones.”

“You think he is worth keeping?”

Evelyn looked at Maynard in great surprise. “Yes, indeed. Jones really
is an excellent butler, and kind and considerate to the other servants.
His eccentricities are growing on him, I’ll admit. He infuriated my
step-father last winter by using religious mottoes on the icing of
cakes and having the floral decorations made in the shape of crosses. I
rather enjoyed their rows.”

“Oh, so Mr. Burnham and Jones don’t hit it off?”

“Not very well. But mother really is attached to Jones and declined to
discharge him even after the birthday dinner--you heard about that?”
she broke off to inquire.

“No.”

Evelyn’s eyes danced. “It was Mr. Burnham’s birthday and mother gave
a large party. The cook, a wonderful cake-maker, was told to make the
birthday cake instead of getting it from Rauscher’s. Unfortunately
she left the icing of the cake to Jones.” Evelyn paused dramatically.
“Jones brought in the cake with the candles all lighted, and before
it was cut the guests examined the decorations. In the center, done in
chocolate, was the date of the day of the dinner, then Mr. Burnham’s
initials, and right around the cake Jones had put in large lettering:
‘Prepare to meet thy God.’

“Mr. Burnham hasn’t any sense of humor,” added Evelyn. “And he hates to
be made ridiculous; I don’t believe he has ever forgiven Jones and he
is always pestering mother to discharge him.”

“Does Jones know it?”

“Oh, yes,” Evelyn laughed mischievously. “There is not much love lost
between them.”

Maynard lowered his voice. “Is Mr. Burnham a pacifist, Evelyn?”

“I believe so, but I don’t pay much attention to his arguments,” she
answered. “At one time he was a pronounced admirer of the Germans’
efficiency, but that was before we entered the war.”

Maynard thumped the neat pile of gravel he had raked up with his cane
back into place before he again addressed Evelyn.

“I am wondering,” he began finally, “if you can recall how Mrs. Ward
appeared when you found her on your doorstep after discovering the dead
man in the library?”

Evelyn wrinkled her brow in thought. “I am afraid I can’t,” she
admitted. “I was in a blue funk and I just clutched her; I think
I would have clutched almost any one whom I found there--even the
murderer!”

Maynard shot a quick look at her. “There is a point which has been
bothering me a good bit,” he said slowly. “It occurred to me that
perhaps----” he stopped, to add hastily: “Please treat what I am about
to say as confidential----”

Evelyn nodded. “Certainly, I promise.”

“Did Mrs. Ward have keys to the house?”

“I suppose so; no, come to think of it she must have given the keys to
Jones.” Evelyn rubbed her forehead. “Mrs. Ward was to close the house
at Chelsea after the servants had left and join them here.”

Maynard drew out an envelope and pencil and jotted down several words.
“Do you recall, Evelyn, hearing the front door bell ring while you were
in the library with the dead man?”

Evelyn’s eyes opened. “I didn’t hear any bell--then,” she stated with
positiveness. “But a thousand bells might have rung and I would never
have heard them in my condition of mind. Oh, if we only knew who rang
the library bell we’d know who killed the man in the room.”

Maynard did not answer at once. “I imagine developments in the case
depend upon the identification of the dead man,” he said. “When that
mystery is solved the other details will follow in their sequence.”

“Have the police made any headway in establishing the man’s identity?”

“Apparently none.”

Evelyn hesitated and glanced around. The little path, where they sat,
an off-shoot from the broad walks encircling Farragut’s statue, was
deserted except for themselves.

“There is something I have wanted to speak to you about, and then
I feared you would think me silly so I never mentioned it,” Evelyn
commenced. “You recall that all the coroner found in the dead man’s
pockets was a piece of string.”

“Yes.”

“The string was so odd--like a snake,” she shuddered. “It sort of
twined in and out of the coroner’s fingers as he stood there, I mean
just before Mrs. Ward fainted, and the string made a deep impression on
me, so much so,” she added hesitatingly, “that when I saw that piece of
string dangling from your coat sleeve yesterday morning it looked to me
identically the same as that found in the dead man’s pocket.”

“It did?” Maynard straightened up.

“Yes. I meant to have spoken to you about it before, but at first
it seemed so absurd.” Evelyn colored. “Thinking it over I grew more
positive that the strings were alike. You haven’t, by chance, kept it?”
eagerly. “You thrust it in your pocket.”

Maynard searched first one pocket and then the other. “My Yankee thrift
makes me keep odds and ends,” he said. “Ah, here it is,” pulling it out
of his trousers’ pocket.

Evelyn took the gayly colored piece of twine almost with repugnance.
As it swayed in the gentle breeze it seemed, as she had said, snaky in
appearance.

“Do you think it would help in identifying the dead man?” she asked.
“The original piece, I mean.”

“Yes, if we knew where he had gotten it and how it came to be in his
pocket,” responded Maynard. “Perhaps I had better give this piece to
the coroner. Where did you get it?”

“It came off one of my packages, you remember,” she answered. “You
helped me carry the bundles out of the taxi-cab.”

“That’s so.” Maynard again took out his pencil and envelope. “Where did
you shop that day?”

“Let me see--Woodward and Lothrop’s, Huyler’s; oh, but what is the use
of going on with the list, the only packages which had come untied
were some writing paper, a box of candy, and a package of papers
belonging to Marian Van Ness.”

A shadow fell across the envelope and Maynard looked up from his
writing. Marian Van Ness stood at his elbow.

“I never saw two such absorbed people,” she remarked as he rose. “I saw
you from the sidewalk, Evelyn, and called to you, then in desperation
walked across the grass. If I am arrested for trespass by the park
policeman you will have to bail me out.”

“Take my seat,” and Maynard stepped back from the bench, but Marian
shook her head.

“I can’t loiter for I have an appointment at the hair-dresser’s across
the street,” she said. “I am late now.”

“Wait, Marian, and I’ll go with you, I have so much to tell you,”
Evelyn sprang up and promptly dropped the string; before she could
stoop for it Maynard had picked it up.

“Shall I keep it or will you?” he asked. He held the string toward
Evelyn but his eyes never left Marian who looked mildly curious as her
glance fell on the dangling string.

“I’ll take it.” Evelyn opened her bag and dropped the string inside it.
“Was the package of papers which René carried off by mistake tied with
that piece of string, Marian?” she inquired.

“No.” Marian walked beside Maynard, who suited his long stride to
her shorter step. “When I gave the package to Captain La Montagne to
carry for me it was secured by a rubber band. Do look out, Evelyn, or
you will be run over,” as the younger girl, not heeding a speeding
automobile, stepped off the curb. It was some seconds, owing to the
congested traffic, before Maynard guided them safely across the street.
Once on the other side Marian gave him no opportunity to resume
conversation, but walked rapidly toward an old residence which had been
remodeled and given over to physicians’ offices and a hair-dresser’s
establishment on the first floor.

“We must hurry,” Marian explained. “Sorry, good-bye,” and slipping
her hand inside Evelyn’s she hastened toward the shop. At the door,
however, they both drew back to let several people pass and looking
over her shoulder, Marian caught Maynard staring at her. A wave of
color mantled her cheeks and turning in some confusion she ran into Dr.
Hayden.

“I beg your pardon,” he exclaimed, drawing back. “I thought you saw me
and waited for me to pass.”

“I am very stupid,” she laughed and bit her lip. “Don’t let me detain
you.”

“I only wanted to catch Mr. Maynard, pardon me,” and the busy physician
ran down the steps to where Maynard, having seen his beckoning hand,
stood waiting.

“Have you seen Palmer?” asked Hayden.

“Yes.” Maynard pulled his companion toward the curb where they were
out of earshot of passers-by. “Palmer has been unable to locate the
taxi-driver, Sam.”

Hayden looked worried. “Too bad,” he muttered. “I saw Burnham this
morning and urged him not to press the charge against Captain La
Montagne until he had time to investigate the Frenchman’s assertion
that Sam, the taxi-driver, had run out of the apartment and up the
stairs just before he approached.”

“Well, that is reasonable,” commented Maynard. “I trust Burnham
listened to you.”

Hayden waited until several women had passed out of hearing distance
before he answered. “Burnham will not see reason,” he said. “He has
become obsessed with one idea and he will apparently go to any lengths
to see that Captain La Montagne is punished for his attack upon him--he
calls it a murderous attack.”

Maynard frowned angrily. “Burnham is a----” he checked his hasty
speech. “It looks as if it was up to us, doctor, to locate Sam, the
taxi-driver, and wring the truth out of him.”

“That is the size of it,” agreed Hayden. “And we won’t find it easy.
Remember, if Sam clears La Montagne of doing the shooting he virtually
proves himself guilty.”

“I see your point,” agreed Maynard. “You mean----”

“That, unless Sam saw another person leave the apartment when he was
there--and it seems on the face of it highly improbable that three men
should have dashed away from our door in the space of a few seconds,”
interpolated Hayden, “one of these two men, Sam or La Montagne, shot
Burnham.”

“It was Sam,” declared Maynard with conviction. “Never La Montagne.”

“I agree with you,” added Hayden. “Patients are waiting for me in my
office, Maynard; after they go I must see Burnham. In the meantime will
you interview La Montagne and ask him if he noted anything unusual
about the taxi-driver, any undue haste, signs of horror, fear, or
indication that he carried a revolver, though the last is not likely.”

“I’ll ask La Montagne,” promised Maynard as the physician moved away
with a farewell nod.

Turning about Maynard continued thoughtfully up Connecticut Avenue.
He had reached the juncture of M Street and Rhode Island Avenue when
his progress was stopped by passing motors. He was just about to step
off the curb when a taxi-cab turned out of Connecticut Avenue and
shot down M Street, but not before Maynard had a good view of Sam, the
taxi-driver, who had half turned to address his passenger, Captain René
La Montagne.




CHAPTER XII

THE CALL


MAYNARD’S hail was lost in the exhaust from a nearby automobile and he
watched the taxi-cab bearing René La Montagne continue down M Street
with mixed feelings, then started at a rapid walk in the direction
the cab was going. At Seventeenth Street he saw an empty car, bearing
the placard “For hire,” coming toward him and promptly stopped the
chauffeur.

“See if you can catch up with that car ahead,” he directed, pointing
to La Montagne’s taxi which could just be seen, and sprang into the
automobile. But the chauffeur, evidently one of the many inexperienced
men who had joined the great army of licensed motorists to supply
the public need of vehicles, had stalled his engine and when the car
finally started down M Street La Montagne’s taxi was nowhere in sight.

As they whirled around Thomas Circle Maynard, who had vented his
feelings by swearing a blue streak under his breath at each second’s
delay, called to the chauffeur to go to the Burlington apartment, and
the man changed his direction with such precipitancy that Maynard was
thrown forward. He had just regained his equilibrium as the car turned
into the driveway leading to the apartment-hotel.

“Has Captain La Montagne returned?” he asked the doorman.

“Yes, sir, just arrived,” and the man touched his cap respectfully.
“Wish to see him, sir?”

“Yes.” Maynard paused in getting out of his car and scanned the
numerous motors parked along the curbing. “Is Captain La Montagne’s
taxi waiting for him?”

“No, sir. The chauffeur picked up a party just leaving when the Captain
said he shouldn’t want him again to-day, and drove off.”

Maynard stared blankly at the doorman. Should he go in and see La
Montagne or try and locate Sam, the taxi-driver, first? His inclination
was for the latter course.

“Which way did the taxi go?” he asked.

“’Deed I didn’t notice, sir.” The doorman was too respectful to show
the surprise he felt at the continued questioning. “Another car drove
up and I went to open the door for the ladies in it. Do you wish to get
out, sir?”

“Yes,” and the servant swung back the door of his car. “Wait,” called
Maynard over his shoulder to his chauffeur and entered the building.
Not troubling to have his name telephoned up he hastened to the
elevator and told the boy to take him to La Montagne’s apartment. His
ring at the bell of the apartment was answered by La Montagne whose
face lighted at sight of his visitor.

“Most welcome,” exclaimed the Frenchman. “Come right in,” and he led
the way across the tiny entrance hall in the room which, with a bed
in an alcove, did for sitting room and bedroom. La Montagne dragged
forward a chair and perched himself on the only other one the room
boasted and then addressed Maynard in his own language.

“We are old friends; let us talk at ease,” he began. “Who is James
Palmer?”

“A Washington architect,” was Maynard’s concise reply.

“Of independent means?”

“I understand he is quite wealthy, but I really know very little about
the man. Why are you inquiring about him, René?” and Maynard looked at
his companion with quickened interest.

“Because,” explained La Montagne frankly. “I have puzzled much over the
scene before the door of Mr. Palmer’s apartment last night. Why did you
and he show such interest in my simple action of stopping to inquire
the way to Madame Van Ness’ apartment?”

Maynard studied the Frenchman as he considered the question. It was
surely only fair to answer it; La Montagne could not defend himself
until informed of the charges against him--after all, what were they?
His appearance at the door of Palmer’s apartment immediately following
the attempted assassination of Burnham could be a coincidence only;
stranger things than that had happened in Maynard’s experience. After
all the most serious phase of the affair was Burnham’s half delirious
statement that La Montagne had “tried to get him.” A man making a
charge had to prove it; therefore, it was up to Burnham to substantiate
his statement with evidence, and La Montague’s assertion that he had
seen the taxi-driver leave the apartment a second before he himself
reached the door was possible of confirmation as soon as he located
the chauffeur. As it stood, both Burnham and La Montagne had made
unsupported statements--and each man’s word was as good as the other’s
until proved a liar.

“Some one took a pot shot at Burnham as we sat in Palmer’s apartment,”
stated Maynard slowly. “The shot was evidently fired from the balcony
into the room.”

La Montagne straightened up and gazed intently at Maynard. “Yes,
continue----” he urged.

“Access to the balcony is from the hall of the apartment; there was
time, René, for an active man to have slipped back from the balcony
into the corridor after having fired the shot and been standing just
where we found you when we rushed into the hall.” Maynard checked
off his remarks on his fingers. “The long French window which gives
admittance from the hall to the balcony was open as well as the outer
door leading from the apartment to the corridor where you stood.”

“Well, well, what then? Just because I stopped before a strange door
does not mean I am a criminal!” La Montagne jerked out his sentences.
“Even in this mad America!”

Maynard was silent for a second. “Burnham fainted from excitement,” he
said. “However, he caught a glimpse of you before Palmer closed the
door and called out that you had ‘tried to kill him’.”

La Montagne gazed at Maynard in blank astonishment. “_Mon Dieu!_ Is the
man possessed?”

“It would seem so,” agreed Maynard. “But I think another word fits
the case better, ‘obsessed’,” and as the Frenchman looked puzzled, he
added, “Burnham appears to hate you.”

“Hate me!” La Montagne threw himself back in his chair. “Everywhere I
hear of such animosity on his part, and why?” he laughed vexedly. “It
is a German trait to ‘_strafe_’ and not an American characteristic.”

Maynard stopped fingering his wrist watch and stared at his companion.
“You mean the animosity is all on his side?”

“Absolutely. Our intercourse has been little but friendly----”

“But--but you know he opposes your engagement to Evelyn----?”

“So I have understood recently.” La Montagne shot a questioning look at
Maynard. “Are you trying to establish a motive for my so-called attempt
to shoot Burnham?”

“Frankly, yes. Now, keep calm, René; this thing has got to be thrashed
out in sober earnest and if Burnham is determined to involve you in
the attempted shooting, it is up to us to prove him a liar,” continued
Maynard. “We can only do that by discussing the matter at every angle.”

“True,” admitted the Frenchman, but his hot color had not gone down,
although his manner was more tranquil. “Aside from all else there is
one point which establishes my innocence.”

“What is that? The presence of the taxi-driver?”

“_Non, non!_ If I had shot at Burnham I would have killed him! See----”
touching one of his medals which he wore. “It is for marksmanship. If
you do not believe----” His hand sought his desk drawer and he whipped
out his revolver--the tinkle of the shattered glass of the small
incandescent electric light bulb, one of a cluster of imitation candles
in the hall, broke the tense silence. “_Voilà!_”

Maynard sprang to his feet, his eyes glued to the automatic pistol.
“Good God! You have a Maxim silencer on your gun!”

“But yes,” responded La Montague composedly.

“But, but----?” Maynard’s words tumbled over themselves. “It is
forbidden by law to put a Maxim silencer on any weapon.”

“Laws are broken daily in America, _mon ami_; why so excited over
trifles?”

“Trifles!” Maynard ruffled his hair. “René, the man who shot at Burnham
used a revolver or pistol with a Maxim silencer on it.”

“_Eh bien!_ What then?”

“This,” tersely. “You have an automatic equipped with a Maxim silencer;
you were standing within a few yards of where the shooting took
place--the door and window both open; and your engagement to Evelyn is
opposed by her step-father.” Maynard drew a long breath. “There you
are; weapon, presence, motive.”

“Bah!” La Montague’s scornful laugh was short. “You forget the presence
of the taxi-driver whom I saw depart from the apartment before I
reached the door.”

“Who is going to confirm your statement that he was there?”

“Why, the taxi-driver.”

Maynard shrugged his shoulders. “Do you think he is going to convict
himself to clear you?”

“You mean----?”

“I mean you are going to have some difficulty in clearing yourself of
having taken a pot shot at Burnham when you found the opportunity open
to you, because”--Maynard spoke impressively--“if you did not attempt
to shoot Burnham, the taxi-driver is the only other person who could
have shot at him, and he is hardly likely to incriminate himself.”

La Montagne listened with ever growing impatience and increasing anger.

“You--you----” he stammered. “You call yourself my friend, and yet you
tell me to my face that my word is not as good as a common chauffeur’s!
I tell you I saw the man leave the apartment just before I got there.
Enough--good-bye.”

But Maynard did not rise though the Frenchman stepped menacingly toward
him.

“I said in the commencement, René, that we had to discuss this affair
from every angle,” he began. “Be reasonable and sit down.”

Instead of complying, the Frenchman tramped excitedly up and down the
room.

“What is your next angle?” he demanded. “More insults?”

“No, René; the taxi-driver----”

“To be sure, the taxi-driver. Have you talked with him?”

“Not yet.”

“No? Ah, you would rather come and insult me; you could not go on my
simple word and arrest him as the murderer, but you think me guilty!”
La Montagne, gesticulating wildly, moved about the room as if on
springs.

“For heaven’s sake sit down and keep quiet,” begged Maynard. “I tried
to see the taxi-driver, Sam, but he was with you----”

“With me?” La Montagne stepped back, astounded.

“Yes; I saw him driving your car and chased after you, hoping to see
you together,” explained Maynard. “Did you question him?”

“I? _Mon Dieu, non!_” La Montagne’s eyes were twice their usual size.
“I did not recognize the man--but now you speak of it”--he checked
himself and continued his nervous walk about the apartment. Suddenly he
stopped and turned to his silent companion. “Let us go and talk with
the chauffeur,” he suggested briskly.

Maynard looked at his watch. “Perhaps we will find him at his garage,”
he said. “He should be back by this time, especially as the manager of
the garage told Palmer he had taken a party to Camp Meade and back.”

“I was the party.” La Montagne paused to lock his desk and bolt
the windows, then he picked up his cap. “_En avant, mon ami!_” he
exclaimed, his anger a thing of the past. “We will prove Burnham a
liar, we two, and Evelyn shall be my bride before many days.”

“Evelyn!” Maynard clapped his hand into his pocket as her name recalled
her message. “Evelyn gave me a letter for you.”

“Give it here.” In his eagerness La Montagne almost snatched the letter
from Maynard and left the closing of the door of his apartment to him
as he moved down the corridor reading the letter. Maynard was about
to follow when his glance happened to fall on the outer wall of La
Montagne’s apartment and he saw a flattened bullet slightly projecting
from it. Taking out his penknife he pried the bullet out of the lath
and plaster and slipping it inside his pocket, he joined La Montagne at
the elevator shaft.

“I know something of firearms,” he said, lowering his voice although
they had the corridor to themselves. “Your automatic is loaded with
reduced charges.”

“And why not?” La Montagne raised his eyebrows. “It will still kill a
man!”

“René,” Maynard’s manner grew stern. “Your conduct bears but one
interpretation--you go armed because you fear an attack.”

La Montague’s smile was enigmatic. “Life is held very cheap in
war-time,” he remarked, and stepped forward as the crowded elevator
stopped at their floor. “Enter.”

It was not until they were inside the closed taxi and the car speeding
on its way to the Potomac garage that La Montagne addressed his equally
silent companion.

“Evelyn writes that her mother is much incensed that I met her as she
states, clandestinely, and forbids that she go again to stay with
Madame Van Ness,” he said. “It is unfair--unjust! Next time----” His
mouth closed like a steel trap. “I begin to think like Madame Van Ness.”

Maynard looked at him keenly. “What do you mean?”

“Madame Van Ness told me Wednesday afternoon that Mr. and Mrs. Burnham
both disliked me; for what I know not, but she suggested----”

“Yes, go on!” There was subdued eagerness in Maynard’s tone.

“She suggested that while Mrs. Burnham’s prejudice against me might
be prompted by her husband, his dislike was traceable to an event in
Paris. But it hardly seems possible,” he broke off to add.

“Oh, go on, man; I can judge better perhaps than you.”

“Burnham had his face slapped by André de Sartiges at the club in
Paris; he did not challenge, as is the French custom.” Maynard,
drinking in what he said, nodded comprehension. “Later Burnham
cut short his visit in Paris, or so I heard afterward; I was but
a spectator at the quarrel in the club; in fact the scene was
ridiculously funny and I laughed.”

Back to Maynard’s memory came Evelyn’s words: “Mr. Burnham hates to be
made ridiculous.”

“Hump! It looks as if your sense of humor had cost you a bride,” he
remarked dryly. “Burnham has apparently brooded over your untimely
mirth until he has exaggerated it into a capital offense.”

“But then he is of unbalanced mind!” exclaimed La Montagne, astonished.
“To think of a laugh seven years old and charge me with an attempt to
kill because of it--_Mon Dieu!_” He shook his head. “Are such things
possible? But yet Madame Van Ness believes Burnham’s enmity is of the
past, and she is discerning.”

“You have discussed the matter with her?” Something odd in Maynard’s
tone caused the Frenchman to glance at him quickly, but his face was
expressionless.

“But yes, she is Evelyn’s best friend,” La Montagne answered simply.
“She has been most kind in aiding me to set straight certain
misunderstandings with Evelyn. She has a most sympathetic nature. You
like her, _n’est ce pas_?”

“Yes, oh, yes.” Maynard drew out his cigarette case and offered it to
his companion. “Have one?”

There was silence as the Frenchman busied himself in striking a match
which he first held against Maynard’s cigarette before lighting his own.

“She is very beautiful, that Madame Van Ness,” pursued La Montagne. “Is
she a divorcée or a widow?”

Maynard, gazing into the street, saw that their chauffeur was passing
the Potomac Garage instead of stopping and tapped upon the plate glass
partition and signed to the chauffeur to pull up at the curb.

“What did you say, René?” he asked.

“Is Madame Van Ness a divorcée or a widow?”

“There is no Mr. Van Ness--here we are; come on,” and opening the door
he sprang to the sidewalk, followed by the Frenchman. A man, evidently
the foreman from his manner and dress, sauntered up and Maynard spoke
to him.

“Is there a chauffeur named Sam employed here? He drives frequently
for Mr. James Palmer,” he added by way of explanation, as he saw the
foreman looked dubious.

“Oh, aye.” Ferguson turned and called to a helper lounging near the
entrance. “Tell Dutch to come here,” and the man threw down his tools
and ran in the building. The foreman turned back to Maynard. “Dropped
anything in his car?” he asked.

“No.”

Further conversation was cut short by the appearance of Sam, still
carrying the waste he had been busily wiping his hands on when sent
for. A streak of black grease showed plainly where he had pushed his
red hair off his forehead.

“What’s wanted, Boss?” he asked. Ferguson with a jerk of his thumb
indicated Maynard and the chauffeur looked at him and bobbed his head
in recognition. Ferguson, mildly curious, propped himself against a
lamp-post and prepared to listen to the interview, but the arrival of
several taxi-cabs called him away to his duties.

Maynard waited an appreciable moment for La Montagne to speak, but as
the Frenchman said nothing, he addressed the waiting taxi-driver.

“You were in the Bellevue apartment house last night between nine and
ten o’clock----” It was an assertion, but Sam took it as a question and
answered briskly.

“Yes, sir; I went there to take Colonel Jean,” Sam’s pronunciation was
somewhat faulty, “to the train. He kept me waiting so long we ’most
missed it.”

“Why did you stop at Mr. Palmer’s apartment on your way to the
Colonel’s rooms?”

“I didn’t stop, Boss,” quickly. “I went up in the elevator without
getting off until I struck the Colonel’s floor. I wasn’t near Mr.
Palmer’s apartment.” Sam’s eyes never flickered under Maynard’s level
gaze.

There was a brief silence, then La Montagne, who had been studying Sam
with eager intentness, shook his head.

“He is of similar build and height, and his clothes the same as the man
I saw leave Mr. Palmer’s apartment,” he said. “But I cannot swear to
his identity.”

“You cannot!” Maynard stared aghast at him.

“No.” La Montagne looked hard at Sam, who gazed back at him unmoved.
“No, I did not see the taxi-driver’s face.”




CHAPTER XIII

THE BLOTTED PAGE


MARIAN Van Ness turned the latch-key and stepped into her apartment
with reluctance. After her visit to the hairdresser she had persuaded
Evelyn, against the latter’s better judgment, to take a light dinner
down town with her and had prolonged the walk home because of her
desire for companionship. It was Mammy’s “church night,” and Marian
dreaded the long evening by herself before the return of the faithful
old servant who had been her mother’s personal maid years before. Mammy
was a privileged character, and her shrewd comments and homely maxims
frequently wiled away the tedium of evenings at home.

When Marian felt the strain of over-work and long hours at the State
Department Mammy, on her return, would put her to bed and nurse her as
she had done in infancy. Her large black hand possessed a magic touch
healing, in its soothing influence, every tortured nerve and bringing
sleep in its train. She would have made her fortune as a masseuse, but
loyalty to her “chile” kept her in devoted attendance, sharing Marian’s
varying vicissitudes with fortifying courage.

Marian’s light footfall made no sound as she crossed the tiny dining
room on her way to the kitchenette opening from it. A peep inside
disclosed Mammy dozing in a comfortable arm wicker chair. Marian’s
surprised ejaculation awoke her.

“Laws! Honey,” she ejaculated, straightening her white turban. “Yo’ am
late to-night; jes’ take yo’ tings off an’ Mammy’ll hab supper in a
jiffy.”

“Don’t trouble, Mammy, I had my dinner down town.” Marian looked up at
the kitchen clock. “You are late, dear; hurry and get your things on.”

“I isn’t goin’ to church dis evenin’, Honey.”

“You are not!” Marian’s surprise increased; for Mammy to miss her
weekly devotional was almost unheard of. “Aren’t you well?”

“Oh, yes, I’se well, but I’se tired,” Mammy sighed as she reached
across to a corner and pulled forward an electric vacuum cleaner. “I’se
been a wrestlin’ wif dis hyar contraption ’most all day. ’Taint any
use ob talkin’, Honey, de store-man cheated yo’, fo’ dis hyar cleanin’
machine ain’t no good, de vaccium’s done gone out ob it.”

Marian concealed her amusement from the tender old eyes watching her.
“I’m afraid, Mammy, you are too addicted to dusters and brooms,” she
remarked.

“’Deed I ’spects dat’s so, Honey; an’ ole broom knows whar de dust is.”
Mammy followed Marian into the parlor. “Yo’se lookin’ kinder peaked,
Honey; is dey aworkin’ yo’ as hard as ebber?”

“Every one works hard these days, Mammy.” Marian handed her hat and
gloves to the servant and threw herself on the sofa which stood in
front of the window. “I’ll just sit here and rest a bit. You go to bed,
Mammy, and don’t worry over this apartment; it is the most spotlessly
clean place in town.”

“Yes, Honey.” Mammy carried Marian’s belongings into her bedroom and
returned with a light weight summer afghan which she spread over
Marian, who had curled up in a corner of the sofa and was lying back
with closed eyes. She did not stir and Mammy, with a final pat, stole
from the room and went back to her quarters, there to doze in comfort.

Marian lay quietly on the sofa for more than an hour, and when she sat
up darkness had succeeded the twilight. Too tired to move, she leaned
back and propped her elbow on the window ledge and looked out. The view
was more attractive than that generally seen from back windows; the
rows of neat back yards, however, were devoid of light and the houses
they belonged to were also lightless except the Burnham mansion.

From where she sat Marian could see that lights burned in the
octagon-shaped wing of the mansion on several of its floors, and her
familiarity with the house’s architectural arrangements enabled her to
locate the different rooms. Mrs. Burnham had neglected to pull down
the shades in her boudoir and Marian saw her knitting by the aid of a
movable standing electric lamp, while Peter Burnham, sitting before the
desk, was examining some papers. In the room above only a faint light
glowed and Marian wondered if the housekeeper, Mrs. Ward, had left her
bedroom and resumed her duties.

Marian’s eyes traveled downward to the open windows of Evelyn Preston’s
bedroom, but they were dark; evidently Evelyn was either lying down
or had gone to another part of the house. Even as she looked a light
flashed in Evelyn’s room and in the sudden illumination she had an
excellent view of the white walls of her friend’s room. Even as she
watched Evelyn crossed before the windows and a second later the light
was switched off. For many minutes thereafter Marian sat in darkness.

The front door bell sounded with such sharp suddenness that Marian
started up in alarm. Throwing the afghan aside and switching on the
electricity she hurried to the door before Mammy, whose doze had
developed into heavy slumber, could pull herself out of her chair. A
trusted State Department messenger stepped inside the entrance hall and
handed Marian a sealed envelope.

“I was instructed to wait,” he explained, and took a chair just inside
the parlor.

First stopping to pull down her window shades Marian hurried to her
desk, and, taking the pages from the envelope, she proceeded to decode
the messages written thereon. She had almost completed the task when,
on starting a fresh page, her fountain pen commenced to leak and sent
a stream of ink across her writing. With an impatient exclamation she
picked up a fresh piece of blotting paper and checked the flow of ink,
then continued the decoding. When her work was completed she gathered
up the dispatches and the original messages and, placing them in a
large envelope, carefully sealed the package with red wax and a ring
bearing her crest.

The messenger, who had alternately read the evening paper and several
magazines to occupy his time, rose with alacrity at her approach.
Taking the envelope he buttoned it securely in an inner pocket of his
coat.

“Rush work to-night,” he said. “They sent me here in a taxi-cab so
that if I didn’t find you in I could locate you elsewhere.”

“Why didn’t you telephone beforehand?”

“Central reported your ’phone out of order,” he smiled. “Ain’t it
fierce? Good-night,” and opening the door he stepped outside and almost
on top of Dan Maynard whose hand, outstretched to ring the bell, struck
him sharply on the chest. With a muttered word of apology the messenger
hastened toward the elevator and left Marian and Maynard facing each
other.

“May I come in?” he asked. His voice was very winning and there was
a certain wistful appeal in his eyes as they met hers which possibly
accounted for the sudden color in her cheeks. She stood in doubt for a
brief second, then stepped back to admit him.

“I won’t take up much of your time,” he commenced, laying his hat down
on the desk and turning to face her as she stopped in the middle of the
parlor. “I have a message from René La Montagne. It is rather long----”
He glanced about and then back at her.

“Then suppose we sit down.” Marian was regaining her old poise. Moving
over to the sofa she ensconced herself on one end of it as Maynard
pulled forward a chair. “You look”--staring at him steadily--“a trifle
weary.”

“I am.” Maynard pushed back his short hair from his temples. “These are
strenuous days;” his manner grew more earnest as he bent forward. “Now
for my message; René desires to know if you will accompany Evelyn to
Rockville, Maryland, next Tuesday.” She looked at him inquiringly and
he added, “René plans to marry Evelyn there.”

She did not answer immediately. “Can René secure a license?” she asked
finally.

“Yes.” His penetrating gaze never wavered as he studied her. “You will
help them?”

“I will.”

Maynard lowered his voice. “Do you quite realize what your promise
implies?” he asked anxiously. “The Burnhams will bitterly resent your
part in Evelyn’s marriage, and they are in a position to make things
most unpleasant for you.”

“Are they?” Marian’s back stiffened. “I am not afraid of the Burnhams
or--any one.”

Maynard sat back and glanced away from her. “Then you are fully
determined to assist Evelyn and René to elope?” he asked.

“I am.”

“Why?”

“Why?” Marian eyed him in surprise, “Because of my affection for
Evelyn.”

“You think, then, a hasty marriage is wise?”

Marian’s fingers played with the afghan. “Circumstances alter cases,”
she said composedly. “Evelyn and René are very much in love and deserve
their happiness.”

Maynard again leaned nearer. “You have so much sympathy for another’s
romance and for your own you have none. Do you never think of yourself?”

“Too much.” Marian’s smile was strained. “I would rather you left my
feelings and my affairs out of the discussion.”

“Certainly; but----” Maynard hesitated a long moment. “Your husband----”

“Died long ago.”

Both her voice and manner precluded further questioning, and biting
his lip Maynard sat back and contemplated her in silence. A deeper
appreciation of her beauty stirred his pulse to a quicker beat; anxiety
and hard work, which embitters some natures, had softened and rounded
out Marian’s character. Maynard was unaware of the passing seconds
as he sat musing, and Marian, controlling her restless longing to
be alone, sat like an image, thankful that she had a back to lean
against and the side of the sofa on which to rest her elbow. She felt
inexplicably weary. Why would Maynard persist in raising the specter of
the past? How could he allude to----

A loud ring of the bell came as a welcome relief to Marian.

Before she could start to answer it old Mammy appeared in the entrance
hall from the dining room, having gone there upon awakening to find out
whose voice it was she heard talking to Marian. The next instant she
had ushered James Palmer into the parlor.

“Don’t get up, Mrs. Van Ness,” he entreated, moving forward with as
much speed as his bulk permitted. “I only stopped in for a moment.
Don’t think me unneighborly if I confess I came to see Maynard,” laying
his hand on the latter’s shoulder.

Marian laughed vexedly. Did every one in the apartment house keep tab
on her visitors, or was it only Palmer’s curiosity which had brought
him there to find out if by chance Evelyn and her French lover were
with her? Palmer’s next remark to Maynard caught her by surprise in its
direct answer to her unspoken question.

“The elevator boy, Jim, told me you were looking at the vacant
apartment next to this, Maynard, and he had seen you afterward stop at
Mrs. Van Ness’ door, so,” added Palmer, “I took the chance of finding
you here.”

“Do you wish anything, Palmer?” Maynard rose reluctantly; he had hoped
to prolong his _tête-à-tête_ with Marian.

“It is nothing so very important,” replied Palmer. “Peter Burnham has
telephoned several times to ask if you were with me; he wants you to
play chess with him. I tried to locate you in several places, as I
judged from Burnham’s voice that he was getting excited and I thought a
game with you might quiet him down.”

“We can try it.” Maynard, picking up his hat, inadvertently knocked
several papers from the desk. Picking them up he laid them with the red
blotter back on the desk, and then he turned to Marian and held out his
hand.

She shook it with perfunctory courtesy. “Do I understand you have taken
the next apartment?” she asked and there was a catch in her throat
which Palmer was quick to detect.

“I plan to.” Maynard preceded Palmer to the door. “You will find me a
quiet neighbor. Good night.”

Palmer, following Maynard closely, was surprised at the speed with
which the door was closed behind him, almost upon his back in fact.
He was about to comment upon it, but his companion’s preoccupied
expression and air induced him to remain silent.

Mammy, who had shut the door with such precipitancy, leaned against its
panels and looked with staring eyes at Marian.

“I’se recognized him now, Honey,” she gasped. “At las’ I’se recognized
him, I mean his voice----”

“Stop!” Marian laid a warning finger on the old woman’s trembling lips.
“We mustn’t tell all we know. Come and help me get to bed. I am tired,
oh, so tired,” and to Mammy’s consternation she burst into violent
weeping as she ran into her bedroom.

       *       *       *       *       *

One--two--three--chimed the clock on the mantel in Marian’s parlor and
the sound drowned the faint noise made by the turning of the lock of
the front door; the next instant the door opened and a figure slipped
in, listened a moment, then slipped with incredible swiftness into the
parlor. A second later a flashlight played over the furniture, never
ceasing in its rapid movement until the rays of light disclosed the
scrap-basket. The intruder turned over its contents, then the basket
was replaced, and once again the flashlight played about the parlor, to
linger longest on the desk.

Underneath a pile of correspondence lay a piece of red blotting paper.
The intruder picked it up; a few words were discernible on its almost
unused surface. With a soft sigh of thankfulness the intruder pocketed
the blotter and silently stole from the apartment.




CHAPTER XIV

BURNHAM PREFERS CHARGES


MRS. WARD, going about her work languidly, distracted Jones from his
usual duties; he was not quite certain what was expected of him, to
attend to the housekeeper’s whims or to valet Peter Burnham whose
continued indisposition had developed a fondness for being waited on.
The butler searched in vain for Mrs. Burnham to ask for orders, but the
only person he located on the second floor was Evelyn Preston.

“Indeed, Miss Evelyn,” he protested, “what am I to do? Mrs. Burnham
says Mr. Burnham is to stay abed, and Mr. Burnham says he wants his
clothes, and Mrs. Ward comes along and says I am to pack Mr. Maynard’s
bag.”

“Mr. Maynard’s bag!” Evelyn sat down in the hall chair. “What are you
talking about, Jones?”

“I don’t rightly know, Miss; I’ve moved Mr. Maynard’s things from the
room upstairs to the spare bedroom on this floor ’cause Mrs. Ward said
it was too hot for him up there; that was yesterday, and now----”
Jones wagged his head despondently. “A body can’t obey everybody,” he
grumbled. “I’d best be accepting the Mission’s offer----”

“Now, Jones, don’t talk nonsense,” interrupted Evelyn firmly. “The
person to be obeyed in this house is----”

“Who, Miss? That’s just what I want to know,” blurted out Jones as she
hesitated.

“Why--why, Mother.” Evelyn regretted the words the moment she had
spoken; whatever her private opinion of the extent or limitation of her
step-father’s authority it should not have found expression before a
servant. “Mother is the proper person for you to go to to settle that
question,” she added in haste.

“Where can I find Mrs. Burnham?” asked Jones.

Evelyn paused to reflect; where had she last seen her mother?

“I think she went down into the basement,” she said uncertainly. “Or
did she go to the garret?”

Jones concealed a smile behind a discreet cough. “Never mind, Miss
Evelyn, I’ll keep going until I find her,” he said as he moved off.

“Wait, Jones,” and the butler halted. “Has Mr. Maynard gone out?”

“Yes, Miss, about an hour ago; anything else, Miss?”

“No, that is all, thank you,” and the servant went down stairs.

Left to herself Evelyn stared reflectively down the hall. Was Dan
Maynard really leaving? He had said nothing to her at the breakfast
table about going; surely he would keep his word and help---- The sound
of an opening door made her look around just as Mrs. Ward stepped out
of the library. At Evelyn’s call she turned with reluctance, or so it
seemed to Evelyn, and approached her.

“Yes, Miss Evelyn,” she said, and stood waiting respectfully.

“Did Mr. Maynard mention at what hour he would return when he gave
directions to have his bag packed?” asked Evelyn.

“No, Miss.” The housekeeper’s voice, monotonous in tone, always grated
on Evelyn’s ear. She scanned the woman attentively; Mrs. Ward certainly
had more lines in her face, and her hair, already gray, had gained an
added whiteness in the past few days, which, contrasted with her sallow
skin, made her look for the first time old in Evelyn’s eyes. Mrs. Ward
moved restlessly under her continued staring, and her severe mouth
tightened as she pressed her lips more firmly together.

“Is there anything else, Miss Evelyn?” she inquired finally.

“No, thank you,” but as the housekeeper turned to leave, Evelyn asked,
“Why did you go in the library, Mrs. Ward? The coroner has forbidden
any one entering it.”

Not stopping her rapid walk Mrs. Ward looked back over her shoulder
and answered none too civilly: “I went in to straighten the room. Your
mother told me to; therefore the responsibility is hers.”

Without comment Evelyn watched the housekeeper’s tall spare form
disappear toward the back stairs, then she moved thoughtfully over to
the library door and turned the knob--only to find the door locked.
Evelyn stared at the closed door in a brown study. She recalled
distinctly seeing the housekeeper step into the hall and she had most
certainly not stopped to lock the door behind her. The lock was like
the others in use throughout the house, not a spring catch but one
which had to be turned by a key.

On sudden impulse Evelyn stooped over to see if by chance a key was in
the lock on the other side of the door. Before she secured a good look
at the hole the door was jerked open and Evelyn precipitated into the
arms of her step-father.

Peter Burnham regarded her in silent indignation as she recovered her
balance and released her hold of his arm which she had instinctively
clung to for support.

“What is the meaning of this?” he demanded and his voice betrayed his
excitement.

“I was trying to see if the door was locked on the inside.” Evelyn was
a trifle breathless as well as consumed with inward fury at having been
caught in so ignominious a position by her step-father. “I had no idea
you were in the room.”

“Oh, you hadn’t.” Burnham shoved his hands deep in the pockets of his
dressing gown. “Well, if you must know, I came in to find out what you
were doing in here. Don’t deny you were here,” as she started to speak.
“I heard you from my bedroom and came in to investigate.”

“You did not hear me,” Evelyn retorted. “Mrs. Ward was in here.”

“Mrs. Ward!” Burnham turned and gazed uneasily about the room, and back
at Evelyn. “What was she doing here?”

“She said she came in to straighten the room.” Evelyn paused in her
contemplation of Burnham and also glanced about the room. Mrs. Ward had
evidently arranged the shades and curtains so as to darken the library,
and Evelyn, her eyes accustomed to the sun-lit hall, made out the
familiar objects with some difficulty. “I hope Mrs. Ward did not dust,”
she added as Burnham kept silent. “Detective Mitchell expressly stated
we were not to dust in here.”

“And pray where have you seen Mitchell?” asked Burnham quickly.

“Here,” meeting his irate gaze calmly. “The detective spends a great
deal of time in and about the house. Don’t you think you had better go
back to bed?”

Burnham muttered something she did not catch. “Have you seen that
jackass, Jones?” he asked in a louder key.

“Yes, he is looking for Mother.” Evelyn’s eyes were growing more used
to the light and she saw that a drawer of the desk table was opened,
and an over-turned scrap-basket lay on the floor near at hand. “Why did
you lock the library door?”

“To prevent intrusions,” replied Burnham shortly. “The police have
ordered this room closed; very well, it shall remain closed. Please
notify Mrs. Ward to that effect, and also kindly tell Jones to bring
me my clothes. I’ll----” a coughing spell interrupted him. “Tell Jones
I’ll discharge him if he doesn’t,” he added as soon as he could speak.
“Also ask him if he sent that telephone for Dr. Hayden.”

“I heard him do that,” volunteered Evelyn. “The doctor said he would be
in after his morning office hours were over.”

“Oh, all right.” Burnham moved to the desk and picked up a pencil
sharpener from among the brass ornaments lying about. “Hurry, Evelyn,
and send Jones to my room with my clothes.”

But Evelyn did not start at once on her errand; there was a feverish
anxiety about Burnham which puzzled her. His explanation of his
presence in the room was plausible; it was a natural impulse to look
in the library if he heard any one moving about in the room closed
by order of the coroner, and perfectly proper to lock the door to
prevent others entering. But why had he not looked into the hall on
first entering the library to see who had left the room? Why wait
nearly five minutes, for that time at least had elapsed while she,
Evelyn, had engaged the housekeeper in conversation, before jerking
open the door? And why select the moment when she and not Mrs. Ward
was standing before it? Come to think of it, she had rattled the knob
in trying to open the door; of course, that would attract Burnham’s
attention and cause him to find out who was trying to enter. Satisfied
with the sudden solution which had occurred to her, Evelyn woke up to
the fact that Burnham was thumping nervously on the door which he held
invitingly open.

“Hurry, hurry,” he reiterated, and Evelyn sped out of the room.

Burnham waited a moment after closing the hall door and locking it
securely, then taking out his bunch of keys he slipped the key on
its silver ring and dropped them back in his pocket. Next he hurried
over to the desk and gathered some papers from the drawer, closed it,
picked up the scrap-basket and placed it under the desk, and taking a
pocket chess board from the table he returned to his bedroom through
the communicating door, closing it carefully behind him. After pulling
up the shades and pushing back the curtains and flooding the room
with light, he clambered back into bed and commenced reading over the
papers he still clutched in his hand. He was absorbed in working out a
difficult chess problem on the pocket board when a rap on his hall door
disturbed him.

“Come in, Jones,” he called, but instead of his butler, Dr. Hayden
walked in. Burnham’s worried expression changed to one of relief. “I
thought you would never come,” he exclaimed, pushing aside the chess
diagrams lying on the counterpane. “Draw up a chair and let’s talk;
don’t bother about that thermometer,” frowning. “My temperature is
normal, I’ve taken it,” pointing to a silver encased instrument lying
on the bed stand.

Hayden smiled as he sat down, having first, however, poured out a glass
of water from a carafe on the stand and put his thermometer in the
glass of water.

“Amateur diagnosticians make work for the physicians,” he said good
naturedly. “What are your symptoms to-day, Burnham?”

But Burnham did not smile. “I know what ails me,” he retorted doggedly,
his eyes shifting about the room and then back at Hayden. “Worry has
played the devil with my digestive organs. I’ll admit I had a beastly
night, but I am all right now. I don’t like the baby’s food my wife
insists on sending up to me, gruel and such stuff. I want a square
meal.”

“We’ll see.” Hayden laid his fingers on Burnham’s wrist. “Pulse all
right,” he said cheerily. “Stop worrying, Burnham, and give your
nervous system a rest. I have told you before that you work yourself
into these excitements.”

“Work myself up!” exclaimed Burnham bitterly. “Nothing of the sort.
Do you think a man of my temperament can keep calm after finding a
dead man in one of my rooms and being shot at two nights ago--and the
murderer still at large? Why, man, my life’s in danger any hour, any
moment until René La Montagne is put under restraint.”

Hayden held up a cautioning hand. “Hold on, Burnham, we do not know for
certain that La Montagne shot at you on Thursday night; your charge is
unsubstantiated.”

“I am morally certain of it,” declared Burnham, sitting bolt upright.
“Not only that he tried to get me then, but that he killed the unknown
man here on Monday night in mistake for me.”

“What!” Hayden regarded Burnham’s flushed countenance with keen
attention. “Come, come, Burnham, don’t talk nonsense; be sensible.”

“You can think me cracked if you like.” Burnham’s jaw protruded
obstinately. “Let me tell you something: La Montagne expected to find
me here Monday night because I wrote him to meet me here.”

“You did!” Hayden stared in astonishment at his patient. “Why did you
make an appointment with him if you did not like or trust the man?”

“Because I wanted him to understand, once and for all, that neither
Mrs. Burnham nor I would permit Evelyn to marry him.” Burnham cleared
his throat, his voice having grown husky. “Evelyn was expected in
Washington and I wanted the Frenchman told before they met.”

“Well, did you see La Montagne Monday night?” asked Hayden.

“No, business in Philadelphia upset my plans.” Burnham’s eyes again
shifted from his physician. “I did not reach Washington until Tuesday.”

“Oh!” Hayden stroked his chin reflectively. Burnham was certainly
working himself into a state of nervous agitation, and the astute
physician was wondering how much reliance to place upon his
statements. It was very obvious, however, that Burnham was bent on
talking to some one, and Hayden decided it was better to thresh the
subject out with him, rather than have him bottle up his spleen and
nurse his wrongs, fancied or otherwise.

“Let us look at the situation sensibly and without excitement,” he
said. “You believe La Montagne killed this unknown man in mistake for
you?”

“Yes.”

Hayden’s next question was checked by the entrance of Evelyn whose
over-bright eyes indicated suppressed excitement.

“Jones has gone,” she announced, hardly greeting Hayden as she walked
over to the bed.

“Gone! Gone where?” Burnham half rose.

“I don’t know--no one knows.” Evelyn waved her hands. “He just left.”

“Walked out?”

“I suppose so,” glancing in surprise at Burnham who had almost shouted
the question. He noted her expression and modified his tone. “What have
you in your hand, Evelyn?”

For answer she laid a small package on the bed and Burnham half
extended his hand and then drew it back.

“It’s been opened,” he exclaimed. “Who opened it?”

“I don’t know. I found the package on the hall table downstairs when I
went to answer the front door.”

Burnham pulled off the outer covering of the package with such vigor
that its contents fell in a shower over the bed.

“It’s only your chess problem diagrams from Europe,” exclaimed Evelyn,
picking up one which fell at her feet. “Why make such a fuss about
them?” observing Burnham’s growing wrath.

He changed the subject with abruptness. “Your mother has repeatedly
told you not to go to the door, Evelyn, but to wait for one of the
servants. It is not dignified for you to answer the door bell.”

“I only went because I did not wish to keep Detective Mitchell standing
on the steps any longer,” she protested, coloring under his rebuke.
“Mr. Mitchell said you had telephoned for him.”

“So I did. Why didn’t you say at once that he was here?” glaring at
her. “Ask him to come in,” and as Evelyn made for the door he added
in an aside to Hayden: “When I send important messages I telephone
from the library.” He leaned over and spoke in a confidential whisper.
“I know I’m watched; they can’t fool me. Come in, Mitchell,” he
called more loudly and frowned as Evelyn, her curiosity piqued by the
situation, walked determinedly in behind the detective; then his frown
changed to a smile and he dropped his eyes so that the others might
not see the sudden crafty malice which lit them.

“Draw up a chair, Evelyn,” he suggested politely, but disregarding his
remark she walked over to the bed and leaned against the footboard.
Detective Mitchell likewise remained standing by Hayden and waited for
Burnham to address him.

“Found the murderer yet?” asked Burnham.

“No, sir.”

“Identified the dead man?”

“Not yet, sir.” Mitchell shifted his weight somewhat and rested one
hand on the bed. “It is only a matter of hours now.”

“Ah, indeed. Well, I’ll assist in pushing the clock hands forward.”
Burnham paused to sip some water from a glass on the bedstand; his
throat was getting dry. When he addressed his companions he spoke with
deliberate impressiveness. “The dead man was murdered in mistake for
me,” he began. “And by the same man who on Thursday night again tried
to kill me, that time by shooting.”

Mitchell bent eagerly forward. “Who is this man?”

“René La Montagne of France.”

“You lie!” Evelyn, her eyes blazing with wrath, shook the bed to
emphasize her words. “You lie!”

“I don’t!” Burnham glared back at her and smiled triumphantly. “I can
prove my statement. Take down the charge, Mitchell.”

“One moment.” Hayden rose. “Let us talk this over a bit, Burnham. You
say that the unidentified dead man was murdered in mistake for you by
Captain La Montagne. Did Captain La Montagne know you by sight then?”

“Of course he did,” testily. “We met years ago in Paris.”

Hayden shook his head in bewilderment. “Then your theory that La
Montagne mistook this unidentified dead man for you, Burnham, hardly is
borne out by the medical evidence.”

“What d’ye mean?” The question shot from Burnham, down whose hot face
perspiration was trickling.

“Why, simply that the man was killed by a dose of hydrocyanic acid.”
Hayden spoke deliberately to make sure the excited man understood
him. “If these two men were drinking together, as seems a natural
supposition, La Montagne would have known his companion was not you and
would not have administered the poison. He wasn’t shooting at you in
the dark.”

“Not then, perhaps----” Evelyn, who had shot a grateful look at Hayden,
whitened as she caught the venom in Burnham’s tone. “Listen to me,
Mitchell; I want your full attention. La Montagne has great reason to
dislike me, to even fear me. Be quiet,” as Evelyn endeavored to speak.
“I had an appointment to meet La Montagne here on Monday night.”

“You did!” Evelyn stared astounded at her step-father.

“But I was detained and could not keep the appointment,” went on
Burnham. He moistened his dry lips before continuing. “I take back what
I said about La Montagne mistaking the dead man for me. He undoubtedly
brought the man here to assist in assassinating me and, finding I
did not arrive, killed the man from a double motive--to get rid of a
witness who might possibly betray him and to convict me of the crime.”

Evelyn stared at Burnham and then at her companions, her eyes half out
of her head.

“You are mad! Utterly mad!” she gasped.

“So that is your cue, is it?” Burnham laughed heartily, immoderately,
and Hayden edged nearer the bed, ready for any emergency. Mitchell was
the first to speak.

“That’s a very neat theory,” he said, and his calm manner had a
quieting effect upon Burnham. “You say you had an engagement to meet
Captain La Montagne here, sir, but that you did not keep it. Then how
did Captain La Montagne and this unidentified man--you claim, his
companion--get inside your house?”

Burnham slipped his hand under the pillow and dragged out a sheet of
note paper. “Here is a copy of my letter to Captain La Montagne making
the appointment for Monday night. In it you will see that I said that
my train might be late, and not wishing to keep him standing on the
doorstep in what might be inclement weather, I enclosed my latch key.”

Evelyn gazed aghast at Burnham and then vaguely about the room; its
familiar objects wavered and danced before her vision and with a
pitiful cry she sank fainting into Detective Mitchell’s arms.




CHAPTER XV

THE BEST LAID PLANS....


MAYNARD, pacing with nervous strides back and forth in Palmer’s
apartment, paused in front of Dr. Hayden.

“Things look black,” he admitted. “Devilish black for René La Montagne.”

Hayden made a last entry in his day book and slipped it inside his
pocket before answering.

“I am afraid they do,” he agreed. “Any news from Police Headquarters?”

“Only to say that Detective Mitchell is still out; I left word for him
to call here.” Maynard flung himself down on the lounge by Hayden. “I
wish I had been with you when Burnham preferred charges against René;
rotten luck being detained down town and missing all the excitement.”

Any comment Hayden might have made was checked by the noisy entrance of
Palmer from his work-shop, a small room at the back of his apartment
which he had fitted up with office appliances and draughtsman’s tools.

“Have you seen Siki?” he asked.

“I have,” replied Maynard, “I sent him on an errand, Palmer. Siki told
me it was his time off so----”

“That’s all right; glad you got some work out of the beggar.” Palmer
wheeled an arm chair forward and dropped wearily into it. “Night work
is playing the devil with me. What is the latest bulletin from the
Burnhams’, Hayden?”

“Burnham ill and Evelyn better,” answered the physician tersely.

Maynard laid down his cigarette case unopened. “Had Jones reported back
when you were there, Hayden?” At the butler’s name Palmer looked up
inquisitively.

“Come to think of it, I didn’t inquire,” exclaimed Hayden. “The
housekeeper, Mrs. Ward, opened the door for me and I went right
upstairs to see my two patients.”

Palmer stared abstractedly at his highly polished shoes then looked
over at Maynard. “Have you notified Chief Connor that Jones has
decamped?” he inquired.

Maynard waited until his cigarette was lighted before replying.

“I have not,” he said. “Chiefly because I am not altogether certain
Jones has decamped. On inquiry I found that Jones has taken ‘French’
leave in the past, always to return some days later with some very pat
explanation for his absence.”

Hayden laughed. “The Burnham household is a singular one,” he said,
“whichever way you take it. There are Mr. and Mrs. Burnham, two totally
opposite characters; there is Evelyn, young, impulsive, and charming;
there is Mrs. Ward----” He hesitated. “A curious sort of woman, morose,
secretive; then there is Jones;” he laughed again. “Jones is an oddity.”

“So odd that I have spent nearly twenty-four hours looking up his past
career,” said Palmer dryly. “And I’ve dug up some interesting facts;
for instance, Jones has never taken out his naturalization papers.”

“His naturalization papers?” Hayden sat bolt upright. “Isn’t Jones an
American?”

“He is not,” replied Palmer. “Some day, Hayden, if this District is
ever declared a barred zone for enemy aliens, many Washington hostesses
will find themselves left servantless and the Kaiser will get just so
much less first hand information about American war preparations.”

“Do you mean Jones is a German?” demanded Maynard, and into his mind
flashed the recollection of his first impression when Jones admitted
him on Tuesday night at the Burnhams’; he had then detected the faint
trace of a foreign accent in his speech, but the butler’s knowledge of
English had made him forget his first impression.

“He is a German.” Palmer was enjoying the surprise his information
was creating. “Not liking his full name of Johannes, the butler, then
about twenty-two years of age, shortened it to Jones and lengthened his
given name, ‘Adolph,’ to Adolphus. Now, Maynard,” Palmer’s manner grew
serious, “we must tell Burnham of his servant’s double dealing.”

“Just a moment, sir, if you please,” put in a voice behind Palmer, and
he jumped at the nearness of Detective Mitchell who had walked in a
second before, unperceived by the three men. “Kindly make no mention of
Jones to Mr. Burnham; Chief Connor is handling the matter now, and it’s
not for us to interfere.”

Palmer colored warmly at the detective’s peremptory tone, but
controlled his anger as he remarked: “So Chief Connor has come around
to my theory that the dead man was a German spy, has he?”

“I can’t say, sir, what Chief Connor thinks; he does not confide in
me,” replied Mitchell. “But I do know that when he requests a person
not to interfere in the handling of a case, it is healthier for the
person to do what he says.”

Seeing the gathering wrath in Palmer’s still flushed countenance,
Maynard hastily broke into the conversation.

“Your spy theory doesn’t seem tenable, Palmer,” he remarked. “If the
man was caught spying, why doesn’t the man who killed him come forward
and state the case? No one is going to be condemned these days for
exposing, aye, even killing, a German spy in line of duty.”

“That’s a specious argument,” scoffed Palmer. “It is just as convincing
to say that if the dead man had been a member of the Secret Service
killed by a German, his identity would be known to American officials.”

“Well, so it would,” declared Hayden, glancing in surprise at Maynard
and Palmer. Maynard’s usually tranquil manner had deserted him, while
Palmer’s expression was a clear indication of his feelings. “It may be
that the dead man was a member of the Secret Service, but that does not
necessarily mean that the Secret Service is going to announce that fact
to the public, eh, Mitchell?”

“Quite true, doctor,” answered the detective. “And it may also be that
the dead man was just an ordinary American citizen, a law abiding
gentleman who placed too much confidence in----” Mitchell paused, then
added, “in Captain La Montagne.”

“Nonsense!” protested Maynard vigorously. “You surely don’t place any
credence in Burnham’s charges, Mitchell; the man’s out of his head.”

Mitchell looked dubious. “That remains to be proved, sir; and until the
charges are refuted by Captain La Montagne they will stand against him.”

“Well, why not hurry up and give him a chance to clear himself?”
demanded Maynard. “It strikes me, Mitchell, you are not giving the
captain a square deal.”

Instead of replying, the detective shrugged his shoulders. “I’ve done
my best,” he insisted a moment later. “I’ve tried to find the captain
ever since the scene this morning; but he is not at his quarters or
at the hangar, nor could I find him at the office of the French High
Commission.”

“Did you try the French Embassy?”

“I did, but he had not been there to-day.”

Palmer rose and offered the detective a cigar and match. “Sit down,” he
suggested as Hayden made room for Mitchell on the lounge, then asked,
“Can you arrest a French officer detailed here for murder?”

“If I can prove he’s guilty, yes, Mr. Palmer.” Mitchell puffed
contentedly at his cigar. “I’ve an operative waiting for Captain La
Montagne at his apartment and at his official headquarters. They
will notify me instantly upon his return.” Mitchell turned and gazed
about the room and then at his companions. “I hadn’t an opportunity,
doctor, when helping you carry Miss Preston to her room, to ask what
Mr. Burnham meant when he said Captain La Montagne shot him on Thursday
evening. Can any of you tell me where the shooting took place?”

“Here,” replied Hayden and Maynard in concert. Palmer, whose pipe had
gone out, was having difficulty in making it draw again, and for the
moment listened in silence to his companions.

Mitchell viewed the room with increased interest, and then
inspected the three men. “Why have you never reported the affair to
Headquarters?” he asked.

Maynard answered for the others. “I suggested that we investigate
the affair ourselves first,” he said. “Burnham’s statement that La
Montagne had shot at him appeared to have so little foundation to go
on that----” Recollection of the scene in La Montagne’s apartment, the
Maxim silencer, and the automatic brought him to a halt, confused; but
he recovered himself almost instantly and, making no allusion to what
had disconcerted him, he talked on--“that we decided to keep the affair
quiet until more had developed.”

Mitchell listened with fixed attention and then turned abruptly to
Hayden. “Suppose you tell me exactly what occurred here on Thursday
night,” he suggested.

“Palmer can answer that better than I,” replied Hayden, but as Palmer
remained silent he added, “I found Palmer and Burnham playing chess
when I got back after dinner, and being fagged out I took a nap on the
lounge and only woke up when Maynard arrived.”

“Then we had supper,” concluded Palmer, breaking his long silence.
“That’s our dining table. We had just about finished when a bullet
whistled by Burnham and struck the wall there.”

Springing to his feet, Mitchell went over and inspected the hole.

“Where’s the bullet?” he asked.

“Palmer pried it out,” remarked Hayden, rising. “Where did you put it?”

Palmer leaned forward and tipped up a small bronze vase which stood on
the table and out rolled the bullet. “It’s chipped and mushroomed out
of shape,” he said as Mitchell pounced on it. “But a gunsmith told me
that it was undoubtedly of thirty-two caliber.”

Maynard kept his face expressionless but his heart sank; the bullet,
safely tucked in his pocket, which he had dug out of the outer wall of
La Montage’s apartment, was also of thirty-two caliber. Could it be
that that also was merely a coincidence? Shaking off his depression
with an effort, he joined the others about the dining table just as
Mitchell asked:

“Exactly where were you sitting on Thursday night?”

Hayden and Maynard indicated their seats, and the former added:

“Burnham sat there, almost with his back to the window.”

“And Mr. Palmer sat facing Mr. Burnham.” Mitchell laid his hand on a
chair and looked from where he stood across the room. “Surely, Mr.
Palmer, you had a good view of the window; you must have caught a
glimpse of any one standing in the window.”

“But I wasn’t facing the window,” protested Palmer. “I left the table a
little before the shooting.”

“Where did you go?” asked Mitchell.

“Over to the window.” Palmer joined the group about the table. “It was
an overcast foggy night and I did not see any one on the balcony. I had
just turned my back to the window when the shot was fired at Burnham.”

Mitchell thought for a moment, then walked over to the window and
looked out. The balcony in effect was an Italian loggia, shaded with
Venetian blinds from the glare of the sun, and ran the length of the
living room and on past the French window opening into the hall of
Palmer’s apartment. The balcony was fairly wide and Palmer had fitted
it up with wicker lounging chairs, a canvas couch, a number of pretty
mats, and a table. Several artistic wicker bird-cage swinging electric
lamps added to the attractiveness of the cool little retreat.

“And none of you heard a sound?” asked Mitchell.

“We heard no sound.” Palmer had suddenly become the spokesman. “The man
evidently used a Maxim silencer. Thugs do, you know,” he commented as
Mitchell raised his eyebrows.

“Yes, thugs do,” admitted Mitchell. “But how about Captain La Montagne?
Where does he come in?”

“He didn’t come in.” Palmer, as he spoke, strolled over to the door and
into the reception hall. “When Burnham and I rushed out here we found
La Montagne standing in the corridor just outside my door. The door was
open as well as the hall window opening on the balcony.”

“I see.” Mitchell jotted down several notes in his memorandum book and
then dropped it in his pocket as he turned to Maynard. “Were you the
last person to come into the apartment before the shooting?”

“To the best of my knowledge I was.” Maynard looked at his companions.
“That is right, Palmer, isn’t it?”

“Yes.”

Mitchell opened the hall door and examined the lock. “Did you happen to
notice, Mr. Maynard, if the door was closed firmly behind you?”

“I never noticed,” admitted Maynard. “Siki closed the door; I didn’t.”

The detective addressed Palmer. “Is it your custom to leave the night
latch down?”

“Sometimes; not often.”

Before closing the outer door Mitchell stepped into the corridor and
surveyed it, after which he reëntered the apartment. “Have any of you
taken up this matter with Captain La Montagne?” he asked.

“We did.” Palmer laid his hand on Maynard’s shoulder. “La Montagne told
us he stopped only to inquire the way to Mrs. Van Ness’ apartment, and
that he saw a chauffeur leave here a second before he arrived, and that
he found the door partly open.”

“Ah, indeed.” Mitchell frowned in indecision before he again spoke.
“Have you taken any steps to prove the truth of his statement?”

There was a faint pause before Maynard spoke. “I’ve tried to locate
the taxi-driver but without success.”

“Too bad.” Mitchell’s frown deepened. “Did Captain La Montagne describe
the man’s appearance?”

“Only to state that he wore a chauffeur’s outfit.” Maynard hesitated
before adding, “Captain La Montagne said he did not obtain a good look
at the man’s face as he ran away from him and up the staircase.”

“But I can describe his looks,” broke in Palmer. “He’s the man we saw
on the next floor--medium height, red hair, and freckles, Mitchell,”
and the detective took down the description. “His first name is Sam,”
added Palmer. “He drives for me quite often and works for the Potomac
Garage.”

“Hold on,” Maynard interrupted in his turn. “I’ve seen Sam and he
declares he did not stop here Thursday night.”

“Oh!” Mitchell stared at Maynard. “That puts a crimp in La Montagne’s
story.”

“Not necessarily,” objected Hayden. “More than one taxi-driver comes to
this apartment house. Have you asked the janitor or the elevator boys,
Maynard, if they saw other chauffeurs than Sam here on Thursday night?”

“Suppose you leave that investigation to me,” suggested Mitchell good
naturedly. “Now I’m in this chase I must handle it; not that your idea
isn’t a good one, doctor, but I can think of a better now. Can I see
your Jap servant, Mr. Palmer?”

“Certainly.” Palmer rang the bell impatiently. “I am not sure he has
returned; yes, here he is,” as the Japanese appeared in the hall.
Palmer raised his voice. “Siki, this gentleman,” indicating Mitchell,
“wants to talk to you.”

The servant moved rapidly toward them and bowed profoundly, then stood
silently waiting.

“Siki,” began Mitchell. “Did a taxi-driver stop here about--” he
wheeled back to Palmer. “What was the time?”

“Between nine and ten o’clock, on Thursday night last,” answered
Palmer. “Did he come here, Siki?”

“No, honorable sir,” Siki again bowed, finger-tips together and elbows
aslant.

“No taxi-driver came?” Maynard looked eagerly at the Jap. “Think, Siki;
don’t make a mistake.”

“My memory is of the most good.” Siki spoke with positiveness. “No such
man called. You, honorable Mr. Maynard, were the last that night.”

“See here, Siki.” The Jap turned to face Hayden as the latter addressed
him. “If the taxi-driver didn’t come to this apartment at that hour on
Thursday, what were you doing in the hall just at that moment?”

“I came to answer the bell, honorable doctor,” responded Siki. “It
rang.”

“We did not hear it,” declared Maynard.

“It rang in the pantry.” Siki’s oblique black eyes stared unwinkingly
at his questioners.

“How long a time elapsed between the ringing of the bell and your
answering it?” asked Mitchell.

“Just so long as it take me slip on white jacket and come from pantry
here,” and Siki sped lightly down the hall and back again. “Just so
long, honorable sirs,” he said, and there was no quickening of his
breath, although he had moved with unusual rapidity.

“Obviously La Montagne rang the bell,” commented Palmer, as Mitchell
picked up his hat from the hall stand.

“Obviously, but not proven,” retorted Maynard, and he also took up his
hat. “Wait, Mitchell, I’ll walk along with you. See you later, Palmer.
Will you be at the tableaux to-night, doctor?”

“Yes. Mrs. Burnham has very kindly asked Palmer and me to go with them
in their box.”

“Then we’ll meet at the theater.” Maynard nodded good-bye and stepped
into the corridor; he had taken but a few steps when Siki hurried to
his side.

“Here is the answer, honorable sir,” he said, handing him an envelope.

“Oh, thanks, Siki, I had forgotten.” Maynard slipped some loose change
into the servant’s hand and then hastened down the corridor to where
Mitchell waited for him.

“That’s an odd coincidence,” remarked the detective, keeping step with
him. “Did you notice it?”

“No, what?”

“Why the ringing of a bell preceded the discovery of the dead man in
Burnham’s library, and the ringing of another bell preceded the attempt
to kill Burnham in Palmer’s apartment.”

“It did not precede, it followed in this case,” corrected Maynard.
His attention was caught by the elevator, which shot upward past
their floor, and he paused to wave his hand to Mrs. Burnham, its one
passenger.

Outside the apartment Maynard turned again to Mitchell. “Do me a favor,
will you; lend me a photograph of the dead man?”

“Sure.” Mitchell accompanied him around the corner and stopped in front
of the Burnham house. “Shall I send it here?”

“Y-yes.” Maynard hesitated. “Yes. I have rented permanent quarters;”
he glanced at the unopened letter in his hand. “But I’ll be at the
Burnhams’ a day longer. Don’t forget, Mitchell.”

“I’ll send the photograph by special messenger this afternoon;
good-bye, sir,” and Mitchell swung on down the street.

Maynard, while waiting for the Burnhams’ front door to be opened, took
out the enclosure in the envelope handed him by Siki. The letterhead
bore the firm name of a well known real estate dealer.

                                                    “September 19, 1917.
  “My dear Mr. Maynard:

  “Pursuant to your telephone call this morning, advising us that you
  would rent Apartment 25 in the Bellevue, we took up the matter with
  the owner. We regret to inform you that the owner had early this
  morning leased the apartment to Mrs. Marian Van Ness.

  “We understand Mrs. Van Ness plans to furnish and sublet the
  apartment, therefore we advise that you get in touch with her----”

Maynard read no further. Thrusting the letter into his pocket he
walked mechanically into the house, totally ignoring Mrs. Ward, who
stood holding the door open with every intention of addressing him if
opportunity offered.




CHAPTER XVI

IN THE LIMELIGHT


THE impatient crowd, regardless of the early hour, clamored for
admittance before the closed doors of the Belasco Theatre. From his
vantage point behind the ticket seller’s window, James Palmer smiled
at friends and acquaintances as they pressed forward to buy tickets
for the “Tableaux of the Allies,” or secure those already engaged. Not
only would the Red Cross reap a rich harvest from the tableaux, but
the amateur performance would be viewed by a representative Washington
audience, judging from the presence of high Government officials,
members of the Foreign Missions detailed to Washington, diplomats; and
army and navy officers among the men and women who thronged the lobby
of the theater.

Palmer watched the ticket seller’s deft manipulation of blue, red, and
white pasteboards and his swift counting of change for a while longer,
then hearing his name called he discovered Dr. Hayden waiting for him,
and he promptly hurried through the private office into the lobby.
Stopping to exchange a word of greeting with several friends just
back from their summer outing, Palmer and Hayden entered the theater
and made their way to Mrs. Burnham’s box. Mrs. Burnham, well gowned
as always, and wearing the jewels for which she was famous, turned on
their entrance and shook hands cordially, while Burnham offered his
seat to Hayden with an ingratiating smile.

“Don’t talk shop, old man,” he said. “My wife has already expressed her
opinion of my leaving my bed to come here, but----” His expression grew
hard. “Evelyn persisted in taking part in the tableaux to-night, so we
thought it, eh----” The playing of the “Star Spangled Banner” heralding
the approach of the President and his wife, drowned his words, and
rising, he and his guests and the whole house stood until the last bars
of the anthem were played.

After reseating herself Mrs. Burnham unfolded her lorgnette and
inspected first the audience and then her program.

“Upon my word, I had no idea so many of my friends were back,” she
remarked, exchanging bows with the hostess in the next box. “It is a
regular winter audience, and not such as you usually see in September.
What’s the first tableau on the program?”

“The Navy,” answered Hayden, to whom the question was addressed. There
was no further time for conversation as the lights went out and the
curtains parted on the tableau, which elicited rounds of applause, and
the Marine Band played the famous navy song: “Anchors Aweigh!”

There was some delay in the showing of the next tableau and Hayden,
idly glancing over the program which Mrs. Burnham held so that both
could read it, grew conscious that her eyes traveled more often to her
husband, who was talking in fits and starts to Palmer, than to the
printed words before her.

“What’s the idea of so many women in the tableaux and no men?” she
questioned abruptly, breaking the silence, and Hayden marveled inwardly
at the shrillness of her usually well modulated tone.

“I believe each girl personifies the spirit of our Allies in the
tableau picked out for her,” explained Palmer, who had caught Mrs.
Burnham’s question. “Some are most artistic; I was called in to advise
about the scenery and saw some of the rehearsals.”

“Hadn’t any idea we had so many Allies,” announced Burnham, glancing
over the program. “Here’s Siam and---- Hello, what’s this to be?”

“‘Somewhere in France.’” Hayden laid the program which had slipped out
of Mrs. Burnham’s hand, back in her lap.

With lights extinguished the audience sat in expectation. Suddenly
before them appeared a faint pink glow which, growing brighter,
disclosed a trench outpost overlooking No Man’s Land--the scene of
utter desolation and destruction confronting the solitary watchful
sentry, crouching gun aslant, was finely done, and Mrs. Burnham winked
away a tear as she whispered to Hayden:

“One of our boys----”

“Yes.” Hayden borrowed her opera-glasses. “Why, it’s Maynard!”

“It’s an excellent tableau!” exclaimed Burnham, taken out of himself,
and he applauded vigorously. “No mistake about it, Lillian, Maynard
makes a magnificent soldier. Strange, as handsome and fascinating as he
is, that he has never married!”

Mrs. Burnham nodded absent agreement as her foot kept time to the tune,
“Columbia, the Gem of the Ocean.” Repeated calls for an encore of the
tableau brought other views of trench life, so excellently portrayed
that Maynard was far over the time set aside for him to be the center
of the stage. He was hurrying to the wings, dodging scene shifters,
when he almost stumbled over Evelyn standing a woe-begone figure in one
corner away from a group of her merry companions who were eagerly or
nervously, as the case might be, awaiting their turn to appear in the
tableaux.

“Have you seen Marian anywhere?” she asked, and her disappointment was
evident at his negative answer. “Where in the world can she be?”

“In one of the dressing rooms perhaps,” suggested Maynard.

“No; the stage manager said she had not come, and he is wild because
her tableau follows mine.” Evelyn came a little nearer and lowered her
voice, a needless precaution as the noise about them, added to the
playing of the Marine Band, made it almost impossible to hear even a
shout. Maynard would not have understood her but for his ability to
read lips.

“Have you seen René La Montagne?”

“Not yet,” he shouted and she whitened under her make-up.

There was no opportunity to question him further as the stage manager
demanded her presence. Maynard lent his aid in arranging her tableau
which represented Belgium, and assisted in lashing her to the wheel of
the gun carriage. It was a very effective tableau. Evelyn half knelt,
half crouched against the wheel, and raised her eyes at the stage
manager’s husky command and gazed in despair ahead of her, the hushed
audience nowhere in sight as her mental vision conjured up her gallant
French lover in the toils of circumstantial evidence.

Maynard halted near one of the wings out of sight of the audience to
watch the tableau. A sudden draught of cold air caused him to look
around and he saw Marian Van Ness just emerging from the circular
staircase, which gave access not only to the dressing rooms under the
stage, but to the stage door opening upon the alley. Marian did not
pause until she reached the wing where he was standing, and he forbore
to address her, noting her absorption in the tableau.

“And what does Jeanne d’Arc think of modern Belgium?” he inquired a few
minutes later.

Marian started violently at sound of his voice.

“Jeanne’s mantle has fallen on the women and men of Belgium,” she
answered readily, but her hand tightened its grasp on the sword she
carried. “How lovely Evelyn is to-night.”

“Yes.” Maynard, who had drawn nearer to let a stage hand pass, made her
a courtly bow. “Congratulations on your costume. You have carried out
every detail of the celebrated picture of the Maid of Orleans.”

“Thanks.” Under the armor she wore, Marian’s heart beat faster as
she caught the fascination of his eyes, and the soft cadence of his
alluring voice. “Evelyn is having great applause. Ah! the tableau is
over.”

“Mrs. Van Ness!” The agitated stage manager pounced upon her. “I feared
you hadn’t come.”

“We worked late at the State Department----” but what else she said was
lost to Maynard, who had gone to Evelyn’s assistance.

“Mrs. Van Ness will be in the next tableau,” he said, as Marian,
stopping but a second to congratulate Evelyn, followed the stage
manager to the center of the stage. “We can’t see it very well from the
wings, suppose we slip out in the audience; we can come back again,” he
added, as Evelyn made no move to accompany him.

“Won’t we be seen?” she asked.

“No, we can stand in the aisle. Come this way,” and his familiarity
with the playhouse enabled him to guide her to the door opening into
the auditorium. They stopped just beyond the entrance in the aisle
and from there had an excellent view of the tableau. Marian’s pose
was striking and something of the fire and mysticism of the heroic
Frenchwoman whom she impersonated lighted her beautiful face.

“She is wonderful!” whispered Evelyn, enthralled, as spontaneous
applause filled the theater. In the semi-darkness a man, hurrying
to the stage door, bumped into Maynard and at his muttered apology
the latter recognized Detective Mitchell. His expression caught his
attention and he checked him.

“What’s up, Mitchell?” he asked, lowering his voice to a whisper so
that his words would not reach Evelyn who, absorbed in the tableau
being shown again, had slipped into a vacant aisle seat.

“Mr. Maynard!” Mitchell halted. “Beg pardon, I didn’t recognize you.
Can you slip out here just a minute?” observing Maynard’s backward
glance at Evelyn.

Maynard tiptoed to Evelyn’s side and whispered in her ear. “Come out
through that door when you are ready; I’ll wait for you on the stage.”
She nodded her comprehension and Maynard stole out after Mitchell. He
found the detective impatiently waiting at the foot of the circular
iron steps leading to the stage.

“Headquarters has just been notified that Captain La Montagne is to
sing here to-night,” he said, taking care to keep his voice low. “I’ve
got to see him.”

“But not here,” protested Maynard sharply. “Tut! you don’t want a
scandal.”

“It’s bound to come,” retorted Mitchell philosophically. “We can’t
postpone making an arrest any longer over this Burnham business; why,
the whole town is holding us up to ridicule.”

“Better be ridiculed for masterly inactivity than be excoriated for
committing a blunder,” cautioned Maynard. “Let me talk to La Montagne
first.”

“No, sir.”

“Well, wait and get him alone at his apartment.”

“I’ve been trying for twelve hours to reach him at his apartment,”
replied Mitchell. “He is too elusive to let out of my sight. Coming up
with me?” as Maynard lagged back. Before the latter could step forward,
the door opening upon the alley swung in and René La Montagne appeared.
He started past Maynard with but a courteous salute at sight of the
latter’s uniform, but his voice halted him.

“Ah, _mon ami_, is your tableau over then?” he exclaimed. “I have tried
many times to speak with you on the telephone, but alas, the Central
would not listen to my directions.” He paused in his rapid French to
glance upward at Mitchell, who loitered on the step above them, and
addressed the detective in English. “Pardon, monsieur, will you permit
that we pass?”

“In just a minute.” Mitchell looked significantly at Maynard. “Please
explain to Captain La Montagne who I am,” he requested. His manner was
not to be denied and Maynard accepted the situation.

“René,” he began, “this is Detective Mitchell of the Central Office.
He is in charge of the investigation of the Burnham mystery.”

“The Burnham mystery?” The Frenchman wrinkled his forehead. “You refer
to----”

“The dead man found in the Burnham library,” volunteered Mitchell.
“This morning, Captain La Montagne, Mr. Burnham made the statement that
you were responsible for the man’s death.”

“I responsible!” La Montagne in his astonishment stepped backward on
the narrow platform and but for Maynard would have lost his balance and
fallen off the step and down the circular staircase to the floor below.
“Mon Dieu! you are not sane!”

“Yes, I am,” responded Mitchell, nettled by La Montagne’s contemptuous
smile. “Mr. Burnham preferred the charges against you.”

At Burnham’s name La Montagne’s surprise changed to indignation. “And
does he dare to go to such lengths in his hatred as to accuse me, a
cadet of a noble house, of a crime so base!” With a violent effort La
Montagne controlled his temper. “Upon what grounds does he make such a
charge?” he inquired more calmly.

“That he had an appointment to meet you Monday night in his house and
that he sent you his latch-key to get in with, so that you would not
have to wait outside the house for him,” explained Mitchell, watching
carefully to see the effect of his words. But his long statement had
given the Frenchman time to pull himself together, and he was master of
his feelings as he answered.

“I had the appointment,” he stated. “But I did not keep it.”

“Why not?” demanded Mitchell.

“Because I lost my way in the storm--you recall the storm of
Monday----” Mitchell mumbled a reluctant “yes,” and La Montagne
continued rapidly. “I am not familiarly acquainted with your circles
and streets, and I lost my way in the blinding rain and hail. I
wandered about for many weary hours, and returned to my hotel drenched
to the skin.”

Mitchell stared at him. “Have you any witnesses to prove your
statement?” he asked, and the Frenchman flushed hotly.

“My word, monsieur, is good----”

“Yes, yes--but you may have to face a court of law,” warned Mitchell.

“Go slow!” commanded Maynard, breaking into the conversation.
“Recollect, Mitchell, in your zeal you may overstep your authority.”

Mitchell contented himself with a glare at Maynard as he again
addressed the Frenchman.

“Witnesses are very good things, sir,” he said wisely. “Just a word
more; do you admit that Mr. Burnham sent you his latch-key?”

La Montagne disregarded Maynard’s indignant ejaculation and answered
promptly. “I received the key, Monsieur; what then?”

“Well, I guess that’s enough----” Mitchell stepped nearer the Frenchman
who faced him calmly.

“I will add,” said La Montagne and his voice was very quiet, “the
latch-key was not in my possession on Monday night.”

“It wasn’t?” Mitchell almost shouted the question, while Maynard stared
in wonder at the Frenchman.

“_Non, monsieur_,” continued La Montagne tranquilly. “The latch-key had
been stolen from my apartment on Monday afternoon.”

Mitchell gazed open-mouthed at his two companions, but before he could
think of anything to say the stage manager ran down a few steps and
stopped at sight of La Montagne.

“Hurry up!” he exclaimed much relieved. “You are to sing the
_Marseillaise_ now; the audience is waiting,” and he almost dragged the
Frenchman up the few steps, Mitchell standing back to let him pass. But
he was hard on his heels a moment later and only stopped in the wings
as La Montagne walked out toward the center of the brilliantly lighted
stage.

Maynard, who had followed his companions more slowly, came face to
face with Marian Van Ness at the head of the stairs.

“Have you seen Evelyn?” she asked anxiously. “I want her to go home
with me.”

“I’ll tell her,” he promised and she smiled gratefully at him.

“Do, please; I’ll run and get my cloak, which one of the maids put in
our dressing room,” and she disappeared as Maynard hastened down the
steps. He had been gone but a second when Mrs. Burnham, assisted by Dr.
Hayden, clambered up the staircase and looked helplessly at the busy
scene.

“Dear me, where will we find Evelyn?” She turned to address a
scene-shifter, but the man passed without paying the slightest
attention to her hail.

“Just sit here, Mrs. Burnham,” Hayden guided her to a chair standing
against the wall. “I’ll look up the stage manager; he will know where
Evelyn is to be found,” and he darted behind some scenery.

Mrs. Burnham listened with interest to the echoing chorus of the
_Marseillaise_, which was being played by the Marine Band and sung by
the audience. Suddenly spying a bevy of girls toward the back of the
stage she rose and walked in their direction.

Mitchell, observing that La Montagne was singing an encore, turned
away just as Hayden appeared at the entrance to the wing and promptly
accosted him.

“Have you seen Miss Preston?” he asked as the detective paused by him.

“Haven’t laid eyes on her.” Mitchell looked over toward the staircase.
“Isn’t that she?” and he and Hayden stared at a heavily cloaked woman
standing with her back toward them. She was peering intently at the
floor when Hayden’s approaching footsteps caused her to look around and
he recognized Marian Van Ness.

“Good evening,” he exclaimed, raising his hat. “Have you lost anything?”

“Yes--I, that is, no----” Marian laughed to hide her embarrassment.
“Have you seen Evelyn?”

“No. I am searching myself for that elusive damsel,” laughed Hayden.
“Her mother is waiting to take her home.”

“Oh!” Marian looked blank. “Then in that case I’ll run along.
Good-night; don’t trouble to come with me,” and she hurried down the
circular staircase.

Mitchell, who had listened unobtrusively in the background, stepped up
to Hayden. “She’s a beauty and no mistake!” he remarked admiringly.
“Gee, don’t fall!” Seeing her stumble on the last step he sprang
forward, tripped over one of the iron uprights of the stair railing,
and went sprawling. His out-flung hand closed over a small object to
which he clung instinctively as Hayden helped him somewhat shakily to
his feet.

“Thanks,” he muttered, as the physician brushed off some of the dust,
accumulated in his fall. Unclosing his fingers he looked at the object
in his hand; his breath entirely left him, and he pointed with his
right hand to the decoration.

“Look, doctor!” he gasped and Hayden bent nearer, then his glance
traveled upward and he and Mitchell contemplated each other in silence.
A hand on Mitchell’s shoulder caused him to start violently.

“What have you there?” asked Maynard.

For answer the detective raised his hand until the nearest electric
light fell full upon it.

“The Iron Cross!” he exclaimed and his voice was shaky.

“So it is,” answered Maynard, looking more closely at it and the string
attached to the cross. “Stage property or genuine article, Mitchell?”

An irate voice from the foot of the staircase hailed Hayden.

“Heh! Hayden, do you think I want to stay here all night?” demanded
Burnham. “Here’s Evelyn,” as the stage door opened and his
step-daughter joined him on the platform of the staircase. “Where’s my
wife?”

Hayden looked around. What had become of Mrs. Burnham? His unspoken
question was answered by finding her almost at his elbow.

“I am coming, Peter,” she called. “Don’t excite yourself,” and bowing
to Maynard, she accepted the physician’s assistance, but Hayden as he
helped her carefully down the staircase and into the waiting carriage
wondered at the hotness of her hand.




CHAPTER XVII

CAMOUFLAGE


CORONER PENFIELD paused in his microscopic examination of the polished
surface of Burnham’s desk and laying down his instrument, listened
attentively. He could have sworn he had heard a faint rustle of skirts.
Moving with noiseless speed over to the doorway he peered into the
hall, himself screened from view by the portières, but the hall was
empty. After remaining behind the portières for fully five minutes, he
again crossed the library and sat down before the desk and renewed his
occupation of ransacking the drawers. With the aid of a skeleton key
he unlocked first one and then another, but only neat rows of filed
bills and canceled checks rewarded his search and he sat back finally,
gnawing his underlip. His eyes strayed about the room and he frowned
meditatively at the clock as it chimed the hour; ten o’clock was early
for an amateur performance to be over, but----

Penfield closed and locked each drawer and replaced every ornament on
the desk where it had originally stood, its place clearly indicated
by the accumulation of dust which, by his order, the servants had been
forbidden to remove. Rising, he took a thorough survey of the library.
Mrs. Burnham had evidently seen that his instructions about keeping the
room intact had been carried out; every piece of furniture was where
he recalled seeing it after the discovery of the dead man sitting in
the chair by the fireplace five or was it six--Penfield stopped to
count--had five days elapsed since then? No arrests, no identification
of the dead man in that time! Memory of a stinging editorial in a local
newspaper on the subject of police inefficiency in handling the case
made him wince. The editorial had hardened his resolve to make another
examination of the Burnham residence, and upon hearing of the family’s
contemplated absence at the theater that night he had decided to take
the opportunity to once again go over the premises.

Crossing the room Penfield again examined the huge arm chair in
which the dead body had been found. He shook his head despondently
over the same blank results which had met his former investigation
of the upholstery of the chair; there was no clue to be found in its
spotless and unbroken surface, no niche where a paper might have been
secreted, or spot where tell-tale finger marks had been left to aid in
identifying the criminal.

With something very like an oath Penfield straightened up from his
fruitless search and again transferred his attention to the library.
Four questions confronted him: the identification of the dead man, how
he had been carried into the library, from where, and by whom.

The coroner stared at each piece of furniture, at every section and
corner of the large room, but no solution of the problem met his eager
gaze in his orderly surroundings. His idea of being of aid to Detective
Mitchell by a quiet examination of the room was a failure; no new
viewpoint of the crime had presented itself.

Penfield turned restlessly about and faced the massive carved mantel
which added much to the attractiveness of the library. The high brass
andirons, their globe-shaped tops reaching almost to his chest, were
badly in need of polishing, and the fire irons and screen were equally
dingy. They were the only furnishings of the room which showed the
result of closing the house during the summer months.

Penfield’s eyes traveled upward and along the high shelf of the mantel,
which stood some distance above his head. The small bronze figures on
either end of the shelf were handsome, but his eyes did not linger on
them and passed on to the next objects, candlesticks, and then were
focused on the center ornament--the mantel clock.

The clock was evidently of French make, and the coroner admired the
handsome gilt work which encased the glass globe inside of which were
exposed the works of the clock, its dial, and the pendulum, which in
that instance was obviously the loose base of the clock, and revolved
slowly half around and back again as the seconds and minutes were
ticked off. But it was the dial of the clock which had claimed the
coroner’s wandering attention. Taking out his note book, he turned its
pages hurriedly until he came to an entry under the date of Tuesday of
that week: “Clock in library going at time of discovery of dead man,
and time registered accurate to the minute with my watch.”

Penfield frowned at the clock. How had he come to overlook questioning
Evelyn regarding the clock? Had she set it going on entering the
library Tuesday morning? If she had not, it would effectually prove
his theory that some one had occupied the house in the absence of the
Burnhams. Penfield brightened; he had found something tangible to work
on after all by refreshing his memory in his re-examination of the room.

Standing on tip-toe, for his medium height did not permit his reaching
behind the clock, Penfield felt along the shelf for a key to the
clock. Meeting with no success, he pulled forward a chair and mounting
it, looked behind the clock, then under the bronze figures, and lastly
under the candlesticks, but he could find no trace of a key. He next
essayed to open the glass door of the clock, but the catch stuck and
pull as he might he could not open it. A discreet cough behind him
interrupted his efforts and he swung about with such speed that he
almost lost his balance. Jones, the butler, laid a steadying hand on
his chair.

“Beg pardon, sir,” he said contritely. “I thought you heard me come in,
sir.”

The coroner sprang down from the chair. “What is it you wish?” he
demanded.

“The housekeeper said I was to report to you that I had returned, sir.”

“Returned? Returned from where?”

“From my day off, sir.” Jones, with careful exactness, replaced the
chair from where the coroner had taken it. “Can I get you anything,
sir; sandwiches----?”

“Not a thing, thanks.” The coroner’s brusque manner cut short the
butler’s loquaciousness. “Where’s the key to this clock?” A jerk of his
finger indicated the mantel shelf.

“I don’t know, sir.” Jones stepped forward and peered along the shelf,
his height giving him that advantage over the coroner’s stocky figure.
“Isn’t it alongside the clock?”

“It is not.”

“Then you’ll have to ask the master,” replied Jones, and his manner
had lost some of its servility. “Or Mrs. Burnham,” he added as an
after-thought. “The key is generally kept on the shelf. Mr. Burnham’s
very fussy about all the clocks in the house and we have strict orders
not to meddle with any of them.”

“I see.” Penfield thought a moment, then walked over and, closing
the hall door, locked it. He balanced the key in his fingers before
pocketing it. “Tell Mr. Burnham I will return the key to-morrow,” he
said by way of explanation as he stopped long enough to pick up his
hat from the chess table where he had placed it on first entering
the library, and then walked over to the door opening into Burnham’s
bedroom. He waited until Jones had followed him into the latter room,
then turned and locked that door, pocketing its key without hesitancy.

Before again addressing the waiting servant Penfield took a careful
survey of Burnham’s bedroom. Its simple furniture appealed to him,
as well as the neat array of long tables which, with built-up sides,
resembled open card index drawers.

“What’s all this?” he asked, approaching the tables.

“Mr. Burnham keeps his chess problems and records filed there,”
explained Jones. “He receives problems, he calls them, from all over
the world; and the time he spends fussing over them!” Jones rolled his
eyes. “It’s enough to make him daffy. Here, don’t touch ’em, sir,” as
the coroner removed several chess problem diagrams. “Mr. Burnham will
raise----” He stopped as Penfield, after a cursory glance at the red
and black markings in the small squares, dropped the diagrams back into
place. “Mr. Burnham’s terrible passionate when he’s roused, sir,” he
added apologetically. “I only thought to caution you, and no offense
was meant.”

“And none taken, Jones,” answered Penfield. “So Mr. Burnham is of a
passionate nature, is he?” Not waiting for the butler’s fervid “Yes,”
he walked out of the bedroom, Jones just behind him. In the hall he
stopped. “Which way is Mr. Maynard’s bedroom?”

“Right down the hall, sir, to your right,” and Jones led the way past
the open door of Mrs. Burnham’s bedroom, which adjoined that of her
husband, to the room he had indicated. Stepping inside he switched on
the electric light and Coroner Penfield looked into the room for a
moment only.

“Cozy quarters,” he remarked. “And who has the room across the way?”

“Miss Evelyn.” Jones stepped to one side to permit Penfield to return
to the hall.

“And that room?” Penfield indicated a doorway at the back of the hall,
a little to one side.

“That leads to Mrs. Burnham’s boudoir, sir, in the octagon wing of
the house; leastways, that is what they call it,” explained Jones.
His voice gained in impressiveness; he would have made his mark as a
lecturer and the house was his hobby. “There’s a lot of surprises about
this house, sir; it’s bigger than most folks think.”

“I have been over the house.” Coroner Penfield paused by the staircase.
“I thought Mr. Maynard had a room on the third floor.”

“So he did, sir.” Jones led the way down the stairs. “But Mrs. Ward had
his things moved into the spare bedroom downstairs, as Mrs. Burnham
feared it was too hot for him on the third floor; not but what he
might have been more comfortable with a suite of rooms all to himself
upstairs,” added Jones, stopping respectfully by the entrance to the
drawing room. “Will you go in and wait for Mr. Burnham? I heard he
would be back early.”

Penfield considered a moment, then moved toward the front door.

“I will be around in the morning,” he said. “Please tell Miss Preston I
desire to see her.”

“Certainly, sir.” Jones held wide the door and watched the coroner
down the steps and saw him turn the corner before he again entered the
house, closed the door and returned to his pantry. He was some minutes
putting away plates, and then gathering the soiled dishcloths which the
second man had left in an untidy heap on the floor, he turned off the
light and went downstairs. The light in the lower hall had been left
burning but dimly and in the almost complete darkness Jones stumbled
against a heavy object and with difficulty kept his balance.

“Look out for my bag,” exclaimed a cold voice back of him.

“_Schwein-hund!_” The word slipped between the butler’s clenched teeth
as he tenderly nursed his bruised shin, and with difficulty suppressed
his desire to kick the bag down the hall as a small vent to his
feelings. Suddenly he straightened up and, turning up the gas jet under
which he stood, glared at Mrs. Ward, but her wooden expression gave no
indication of having heard his ejaculation or observed his sudden badly
concealed fury. Controlling himself by a supreme effort, he hid his
feelings under his familiar suave manner.

“Why do you leave your bag in the way?” he asked, at the same time
stooping to stand the suit case upright against the wall. “Shall I
carry it upstairs for you?”

“No, put it down.” Mrs. Ward’s acerbity was unmistakable and Jones
released his hold of the bag with alacrity, while silently marveling at
its weight. “Go answer the bell, imbecile; do you not hear it ringing?”

Casting down the soiled dishcloths on top of the bag, Jones dashed by
the housekeeper and ran upstairs, the front bell keeping up a ceaseless
din as he hurried along; but in spite of his haste he paused long
enough to scratch his bald head before opening the door.

“The bag had an ‘M’ on it,” he muttered. “It was no ‘W.’ I have a
mind----” Another imperative summons on the bell sounded and he jerked
open the door.

“Is Mr. Maynard in?” asked Marian Van Ness as she stepped across the
threshold.

“Mr. M-M-Maynard,” stuttered Jones, his surprise at sight of Marian
plainly evident. “No, miss, no ma’am.” Catching sight of her
expression, his own changed to one of concern. “Are you ill, ma’am?”

“No.” Marian rubbed her cheeks, forgetting they were rouged, and
unaware that it was the expression of her eyes which had alarmed the
butler. “I have lost--I would like----” she pulled herself up short.
“Has Miss Evelyn returned from the theater?”

“Not yet, ma’am.”

Marian moved over to the hall seat and sat down wearily. “Get a sheet
of paper and a pencil, Jones,” she directed. “I want to leave a note
for--for Mr. Maynard.”

“Surely, ma’am.” Jones fumbled about on the hall table and produced a
much chewed pencil and a small piece of folded paper. “Just write your
message here, ma’am, and I’ll give it to Mr. Maynard.”

Marian threw back her cloak and the butler inspected her striking
costume of Jeanne d’Arc with admiring eyes. Forgetful of Jones’
presence, Marian stared at the blank paper, then wrote a few lines,
and folded it into a cocked hat, added “Dan Maynard, Esq.,” in her
distinctive writing and handed the note to Jones.

“I will be greatly obliged, Jones,” she said, stepping to the door, “if
you will not mention my presence here to-night to any one, but give my
note to Mr. Maynard.”

“Certainly, ma’am, I understand.” But the butler’s face was blank
as he closed the door behind Marian and went slowly down stairs. He
quickened his footsteps on hearing subdued voices in the hall leading
to the basement front door, and reached there just in time to see the
housekeeper hand her suit case to a taxi-cab driver.

“Here, wait!” he called, but instead of complying the taxi-driver
slipped outside and Mrs. Ward shot the bolt into place before turning
to face the irate butler.

“Hold your fuss!” she exclaimed authoritatively. “And mind your own
business.”

“It is my business to know who comes here at night,” stormed Jones,
giving vent to his bottled up anger at last. “Think you Mrs. Burnham
likes to have hangers-on at her kitchen door?”

“And think you she likes to have such companions as you bring here?”
Mrs. Ward’s blood was up. “The man whom the police want--the man you
have kept here.”

Jones looked involuntarily over his shoulder. “Not so loud,” he
cautioned. “Heinrich has joined the Mission; he seeks Divine guidance.”

“Then let him seek it elsewhere than in this house.” Mrs. Ward turned
contemptuously away. “Pick up your clothes and be off.”

Jones gathered up the soiled dish towels in silent fury. As he tucked
them under his arm some dark stains on one cloth caught his eye.

“Ah! Paint is it or ink?” He sniffed at the cloth, holding it close
under his nose. “And why did you put fresh paint on your suit case?”

Instead of replying Mrs. Ward walked into the servants’ dining room
and, sitting down, composedly picked up her knitting. Jones hesitated
uncertainly in the hall, then, thrusting the note which Marian had
given him inside a pocket, he followed Mrs. Ward into the room and
stationed himself opposite her.

“Why did you alter the initial on the suit case?” he demanded, and
waited in growing wrath for an answer. Receiving none, he again
addressed the housekeeper. “Silence will not help you,” he announced.
“I know--all.”

“Then why ask me questions?” inquired Mrs. Ward practically.

“Because I desire to know why that taxi-driver is here so often; in the
back way; in the window, yonder,” pointing to the one opening on the
walk which separated the Burnham residence from its next door neighbor,
and which gave light and air to the rooms on that side of the house.
“What does he here of so secretive a nature?”

Mrs. Ward laid down her knitting and met his angry gaze with one
equally furious.

“What concern is it of yours?”

“That is my affair.”

“That is no answer.” Mrs. Ward shrugged her shoulders disdainfully.

“Then shall I say,” the butler leaned closer, “shall I say that that
man’s jack-in-the-box presence in this house is for you a menace?”

Mrs. Ward’s laugh did not ring quite true.

“Since you must know----” She commenced, and paused to glance over her
shoulder.

“Yes.” Jones came nearer. “What?”

“That man you call ‘jack-in-the-box’----”

“The taxi-driver,” prompted Jones. “Go on, woman!”

“That man----” the loud buzzing of the front door bell interrupted her.
“Answer the bell.”

“Yes, yes, in a moment.” Jones came yet nearer. “The taxi-driver--who
is he?”

“A detective--now go,” and Mrs. Ward resumed her knitting.




CHAPTER XVIII

“THE HANDWRITING ON THE WALL”


BY the time Jones reached the front hall he found the door open and
Mrs. Burnham awaiting his arrival with an angry sparkle in her eyes.

“Late again, Jones,” she remarked, and her tone caused the butler to
flush uncomfortably. “Help Mr. Burnham off with his coat and then
assist him to bed.”

Burnham rejected the butler’s aid with the same petulance he had shown
to Maynard when the latter offered his assistance.

“I’m not a baby,” he remarked through chattering teeth. “What if I did
catch a chill coming home, Lillian; it’s nothing serious. Here, take my
keys, Jones, and bring me some whiskey from the sideboard.” Jerking the
bunch of keys from the front door lock where he had left it dangling
in his haste to enter the house, he tossed it to the waiting servant,
and laying his hand on Maynard’s arm started with him up the staircase.
Mrs. Burnham turned to follow when Evelyn, who had remained in the
vestibule, stepped inside the house, closed the door, and called her
softly by name.

“Come in the dining room, Mother, dear,” she said. “I must have a word
with you, alone,” and the quiet emphasis on the last word belied her
unnaturally high color and brilliant eyes. “Please, Mother.” Seeing
Mrs. Burnham hesitate, she moved forward and gently encircled her waist
with her arm. “Spare just a moment to me.”

Mrs. Burnham bent forward and kissed her with warmth. “Of course,
Evelyn,” she said cheerily. “Say as many words to me as you want,” and
she led the way into the drawing room, pausing only long enough to turn
on the lights.

“Sit by me here,” she suggested, making herself comfortable on the
sofa, but Evelyn, too nervous to remain quiet, only paused in her
restless moving about to stand in front of her.

“Mother,” she began, and in spite of her determination to keep her
voice steady it shook. “I love René La Montagne.”

Mrs. Burnham’s expression altered. “You think you do, Evelyn,” she
corrected gently.

“No, Mother.” Evelyn’s gaze never shifted. “I love René and I intend to
marry him.”

“Need we go into that?” Mrs. Burnham smiled, not unkindly. “Suppose for
to-night we just admit the first premise--you love him.”

“Thank you, Mother.” Evelyn rested her hands against the table at her
back and steadied herself. “René,” she blushed hotly. “René loves me.”

Mrs. Burnham gazed steadily at her daughter and a sudden wave
of tenderness swept over her, and for a second the charming
picture--Evelyn in her straight young beauty and her tattered Belgian
costume--was blurred from sight by blinding tears. Unconscious of her
mother’s emotion, Evelyn waited a moment before speaking.

“René loves me and I love René,” she reiterated. “Therefore; Mother,
will you announce our engagement to-morrow morning?”

Mrs. Burnham sat bolt upright. “Will I do what?” she demanded.

“Announce my engagement to René La Montagne.”

“My dear child,” Mrs. Burnham raised her hands in horror. “Utterly
unthought of!”

“But why? René and I have thought of it, and we are the most concerned.”

“Preposterous!” fumed Mrs. Burnham. “Why, the man’s under a cloud!”

“Exactly, mother; that is why I wish our engagement announced.” Evelyn
stood proudly erect. “Shall you make the announcement or I, Mother?”

[Illustration: “René,” she blushed hotly, “René loves me.”]

Mrs. Burnham stared at her in blank astonishment. “Have you taken
leave of your senses?” she demanded. “Sit down here, Evelyn, and let us
discuss this matter rationally.”

“Thanks, Mother, but I prefer to stand. I--I will not keep you long; in
fact,” her smile was very winning, “I but wait your answer.”

Mrs. Burnham sighed. “The perversity of life!” she exclaimed. “Why do
you pick out the one man I could not welcome as a son-in-law?”

“But why can’t you welcome him?” asked Evelyn impetuously. “René is
all that a man should be--tender, true, and brave. Look at the record
he had made in that gallant army of France. You have every reason to
be proud of René, mother. Why, then, are you so absurdly prejudiced
against him? He has never done anything to you.”

“Not to me perhaps----” began Mrs. Burnham, but Evelyn gave her no time
to finish.

“Is it fair to take Mr. Burnham’s opinion about René instead of mine?”
she demanded hotly. “My word is just as good as his, if not----”

“Stop, Evelyn.” Mrs. Burnham held up her hand imperatively. “It is
not a question of word but of judgment; you are immature, impulsive,
impressionable----”

“Good gracious, Mother,” Evelyn laughed vexedly. “Any more ‘ims’ you
can think of? Mr. Burnham is determined to get René into trouble, and
it is plain to be seen that he has influenced you against me.”

Mrs. Burnham flushed. “You are unjust, Evelyn,” she remonstrated. “You
carry your dislike of your step-father too far----”

“You mean he has carried his dislike of René too far,” retorted
Evelyn, bitter resentment against Burnham getting the better of her
determination to curb her anger. “He has, even to preferring false
charges against René.”

“Gently, Evelyn, gently.” Mrs. Burnham rose. “Do not say things in
anger which you may bitterly regret later.”

“I shall never regret one word I say in defense of René,” responded
Evelyn with undaunted spirit “And when Mr. Burnham charges René killed
that unknown man in our library, he lies.”

Mrs. Burnham laid a firm hand on Evelyn’s shoulder. “Hush!” she
commanded. “René will have an opportunity to prove his innocence
shortly. I understand----” She faltered for a second, then continued
sternly: “I understand he has been arrested for the crime.”

Evelyn shrank back from her mother and covered her face with her hands.
When she looked up her expression had altered.

“Either you or I will announce in to-morrow’s papers my engagement to
René--which shall it be?” she asked.

“Evelyn.” Mrs. Burnham seldom used that tone in addressing her daughter
and the girl looked at her dumbly. “Have you considered what such a
step means in the face of my disapproval?”

“You mean--giving up my fortune?”

“Yes. By the terms of your father’s will you forfeit your inheritance
if you marry against my wishes.”

“Well, what of it?” Evelyn shrugged her shoulders disdainfully. “Thank
God, money isn’t everything!”

“You are very young.” Mrs. Burnham smiled faintly. “In this case there
is more than money involved; a crime and public scandal. Child!” For
a second Mrs. Burnham’s composure deserted her. “You must be mad to
desire to announce your engagement to a man whom your step-father
charges with a heinous crime.”

“Charges can be disproved,” retorted Evelyn. “Mother,” she laid an
imploring hand on her arm. “Mother, I assure you René is not guilty,
no matter how much circumstantial evidence points to him; he no more
killed that man than did Peter Burnham.”

Rapidly approaching footsteps caused Mrs. Burnham to turn abruptly and
she welcomed Maynard’s entrance almost with eagerness.

“I have persuaded your husband to go to bed,” he said. “I think he will
rest very comfortably. He has given me a prescription to fill for him;
can you tell me where to find the nearest drug store which stays open
all night?”

“I am afraid it is fully six blocks away, on Connecticut Avenue,”
exclaimed Mrs. Burnham. “It is a shame to take you out at this hour of
the night.”

“Not a bit of it.” Maynard nodded gayly at Evelyn. “Too bad you can’t
stroll down town with me, Evelyn, the walk might do you good; not in
that thin dress,” hastily. “Fortunately, to-night I was cast for an
appropriate costume; uniforms are not conspicuous these days.”

“Our uniforms are always conspicuous,” rebuked Evelyn. “Just think of
the gallant men wearing them.”

“All honor to them!” Maynard raised his hand in quick salute. “Some
day, God willing, I’ll go up the line with the boys in khaki and over
the top; until then----” A quick sigh completed the sentence. “I’ve
taken your latch-key, Mrs. Burnham, so don’t have any one wait up for
me,” and he hurried out of the house.

“Go to bed and get some rest, Evelyn,” suggested Mrs. Burnham,
pausing with her hand on the electric light button. “We can talk more
reasonably after a good night’s sleep. Come and see me after breakfast,
and remember----”

“Yes, Mother.” Evelyn waited for her mother to lead the way up the
staircase. But Mrs. Burnham did not complete her sentence until she had
reached the second floor. In front of her door she turned and patted
Evelyn gently on her shoulder. “Remember,” she said, “do nothing rash.”

It was not until Evelyn was in her own bedroom arranging her hair that
she recollected her mother had omitted her customary good-night kiss.
Evelyn’s lip quivered; her sensitive high-strung nature made her a prey
to every slight, however unintentional or imaginary they were. She felt
cruelly the barrier which she had been quick to see was slowly but
surely separating her from her mother, a mother she had idolized up to
the time of her marriage to Peter Burnham.

She had never been able to conquer her distaste for Peter Burnham and
her growing fear that he might some day supplant her in her mother’s
affections. She had little hope that she could win her mother’s consent
to her engagement to René La Montagne, and still less that her mother
would announce the engagement. But Evelyn came of a loyal courageous
race and her fighting blood was up. Her lover, alone in a strange
country, faced, in her opinion, unjust imprisonment for a crime he
had not committed, and she was determined to offset her step-father’s
charges against him by the announcement of their engagement. Let
tongues wag in society and scandal be whispered; if she showed her
faith in René La Montagne others would rally to his aid. There was
Marian Van Ness and Dan Maynard-- A tap on her door awoke her from her
abstraction.

“What is it?” she called.

“It is I, Miss Evelyn,” announced Mrs. Ward, pushing the door farther
open. “Your mother thought you might need my help in getting out of
that dress. Let me do that for you,” and she deftly extracted a pin
Evelyn had been vainly trying to reach for some moments.

“Thanks.” Evelyn submitted to being undressed with alacrity; she was
utterly weary. “Aren’t you up pretty late for a woman who has been as
ill as you have?”

“I am well again,” replied the housekeeper, arranging Evelyn’s clothes
neatly on a chair and picking up brush and comb. “Just slip into bed,
Miss Evelyn, and I’ll brush and braid your hair for you.”

With a murmur of thanks Evelyn followed her advice and partly sat and
lay at ease while the experienced woman (she had graduated from lady’s
maid to her position of housekeeper) deftly arranged her long silky
hair, badly tangled from having worn it loose down her back in the
tableau.

“There, Miss Evelyn, that is done,” Mrs. Ward announced twenty minutes
later. “Is there anything else you would like?”

Evelyn looked about the room. “If you will open all my windows and
raise the shades, I shall be greatly obliged,” she said. “The room is
horribly hot.”

Mrs. Ward hesitated perceptibly. “I’m afraid you are a bit feverish,”
she exclaimed. “Do you think it’s wise to open all the windows, Miss
Evelyn? This room really isn’t any too warm.”

“I can’t sleep in it as it is,” exclaimed Evelyn. “I must have air;
my head is swimming. Don’t worry about my catching cold, Mrs. Ward; I
always sleep with the wind blowing on me.”

“Very well, Miss Evelyn.” The housekeeper went to first one window and
then the other and pulled up the Holland shades, then flung the windows
wide open. On her way to the door she stopped by the bed and looked
thoughtfully down at Evelyn, then without speaking glided from the room
to return a moment later with a silver whistle.

“If the room gets too cold, Miss Evelyn, and you don’t want to get up,
just blow on this and I’ll come downstairs and help you,” she said,
laying the whistle in Evelyn’s hand.

Genuinely touched, Evelyn raised herself on her elbow. “That’s very
thoughtful and kind of you,” she exclaimed. “Thank you so much.”

“Don’t mention it, Miss Evelyn, good-night,” and Mrs. Ward hurried away.

Sleep was far from Evelyn’s eyes and for long hours she tossed and
turned on her pillow; the cool night air gradually lowered the
temperature of the room and she felt relief. She had a touch of fever,
she admitted to herself, touching her hot forehead, and half determined
to get up and rummage around in her mother’s medicine cabinet for a
bottle of “sweet spirits of niter,” but the thought of waking her
mother deterred her.

As the night passed Evelyn slept by fits and starts. She was lying
drowsily awake listening to a distant clock chiming three when she
grew conscious of a light streaming directly in her eyes. Her lids
flew open and she blinked for a few seconds before realization came
to her. Jerking herself up on her elbow she gazed at a thin wave of
light shining steadily through one of the windows full on her pillow.
Too weary to do more than stare, she finally pulled her pillow around
and settled herself in another position. She was just dozing off when
the light again aroused her. Three times she changed her position and
each time the light shone directly in her eyes. There was something
uncanny in its power and its silent search only for her eyes. Evelyn
felt a chill creep down her spine; then, conquering her nervousness,
she reached over to a chair near the bed where lay her wrapper and
proceeded to put it on. There was nothing for her to do but get up and
pull down her window shades.

Suddenly just as she was about to spring out of bed a flash of light on
the blank wall opposite her bed caught her attention and glancing up
she was horrified to see vividly outlined there the scene of Tuesday
morning--the large library chair with the dead man sitting with head
thrown back, and once again she gazed in breathless suspense straight
into the man’s wide open staring eyes.

Evelyn sat spell-bound; then shuddering she covered her eyes with her
hands and cowered back. When she looked up again the wall opposite was
blank. Closing her eyes she pressed the lids down with her finger-tips
and kept them so for at least ten minutes. The next time she looked at
the wall the space was still blank, and steadying her shaken nerves
with the thought that her imagination was running away with her, she
started to rise when before her eyes appeared a cord, exaggerated in
size against the blank wall; suspended apparently by unknown, unseen
means in mid-air, it twined about like some uncanny snake, but even
as it twisted to and fro, Evelyn recognized the peculiar style of the
cord--she had seen it three times before: taken from the dead man’s
pocket, hanging from the open parcel in her hand two days later, and
given to her the next afternoon by Dan Maynard.

With desperate fingers Evelyn groped under her pillow for the silver
whistle--she would not stay another minute alone; she must tell some
one of her hallucination before she went entirely out of her head. With
eyes averted from the opposite wall, she twisted about in bed until the
missing whistle turned up under her left elbow.

Blowing the whistle was not as simple a business as she had
anticipated; her mouth was dry and parched and such breath as she
had in her body only raised a feeble pipe; but in desperation she
persevered. She was bathed in perspiration before a sound of footsteps
brought unspeakable relief.

“Hurry, hurry,” she gasped, as a white-robed figure stepped just inside
her room. “Come nearer. Look!” and with eyes averted she pointed to the
opposite wall.

She was conscious of the figure’s approach at her hoarse whisper, but
the continued silence snapped her last remnant of self-control.

“Tell me you see it,” she begged piteously. “The string, Mrs.
Ward; you see the string!” and she caught the woman and swung her
about, imploring eyes upraised--the woman who faced her was not the
housekeeper, but her mother.

“Be calm, Evelyn,” she said, stroking the girl’s hot head. “What is the
meaning of this?”

“Can’t you see the string on the wall?” asked Evelyn clinging to her.

Mrs. Burnham looked in the direction Evelyn pointed.

“No, dear,” she whispered soothingly. “Look for yourself.”

Slowly, reluctantly Evelyn turned and looked full at the wall--her
mother was right, it was blank. But even as she stared at it, the wall
lightened and once again she gazed into the eyes of the dead man seated
in the chair facing her.

“See, Mother!” she cried.

Like one carved from stone Mrs. Burnham stared at the opposite wall;
motionless, almost with breathing suspended, she continued to look
ahead of her. Suddenly she spoke, and it was a voice Evelyn had never
heard before and would never have recognized as hers.

“I see nothing, Evelyn,” she said. “The wall is blank.”




CHAPTER XIX

BRIBERY


JAMES PALMER felt his clean shaven chin with nervous fingers and turned
away from contemplating himself in the mirror with a dissatisfied
scowl. Kicking aside his tumbled clothes, which lay half on, half off
the bed, he hurried into the living room of his apartment in time to
catch Dr. Hayden as the latter was leaving on his round of professional
visits.

“Give me a bracer, Hayden,” he demanded. “My nerves have gone to pot.”

Hayden scanned him closely and noted with professional interest his
bloodshot eyes and shifting, ever moving restless fingers.

“Go back to bed,” he directed. “You are not in shape to be about this
morning.”

“Shape or not, I’ve got to be in my office Sunday or no Sunday;
Government contracts don’t wait on nerves, time, or day. Those
cantonment plans must be shipped to----” Observing Hayden’s obdurate
manner, Palmer’s peremptory tone changed to one almost of pleading.
“Don’t send me to bed; I tell you I can’t sleep and I’ll go crazy if I
remain inactive. I _had_ to work last night; God knows if I can’t sleep
at night, I can’t sleep in daylight.”

Hayden considered him a moment, then drawing out his prescription pad
he wrote down directions, and tearing off the slip handed it to Palmer
who, impatient to be off, stood twirling his hat from one hand to
another.

“This mild bracer will give you relief, Palmer, but only temporarily.”
Hayden’s serious manner impressed Palmer in spite of his open
disinclination to follow his advice. “It is trite but true that no man
can burn the candle at both ends; working under pressure day and night
creates the necessity for sanitariums.”

Palmer frowned then smiled as he tucked the prescription safely away in
his vest pocket.

“The work will lighten up shortly,” he declared. “Come along; oh,
d----mn! there’s the ’phone.”

“Don’t wait, I’ll answer it,” and Hayden turned back into the apartment
as Palmer hurried down the corridor. Just as he reached the head of
the staircase a sound of voices drifted to him, and glancing over his
shoulder he saw Mrs. Burnham leave the elevator and walk toward his
apartment. Palmer stood for several seconds where he was; then, as Mrs.
Burnham was admitted by his Japanese servant, Siki, he slowly retraced
his footsteps to his apartment.

Inside the living room Hayden listened to a long winded statement from
one of his patients, and making his replies as brief as politeness
permitted he finally hung up the receiver and, swinging about, found
Mrs. Burnham seated near at hand.

“I telephoned to your office and the boy told me you were not expected
there this morning, so I chanced finding you here,” she explained as
they shook hands. “I want your professional advice.”

“Surely, Mrs. Burnham.” Hayden drew a chair forward and sat down by
her. “What is it?”

Mrs. Burnham did not reply at once. “Are we likely to be interrupted?”
she finally inquired.

“No,” replied Hayden. “Palmer left before you came, and Siki is busy in
his pantry.”

Mrs. Burnham’s tense manner relaxed somewhat. “I want to speak to you
on confidential matters,” she said. “You will kindly mention my visit
to no one.”

“Certainly not.” Hayden bowed. “Proceed, madam.”

It was some minutes before Mrs. Burnham again addressed him; she seemed
at first uncertain how to commence.

“I sent for you this summer to come to Chelsea,” she began, “so that
you might have Mr. Burnham under observation; I told you that at the
time.” Hayden bowed again. “You said then that you observed a tendency
on his part to brood and to withdraw himself from the society of his
friends.”

“True,” responded Hayden gravely. “His chief relaxation, aside from
long solitary walks, seemed to be to lock himself in some room and work
over chess problems. I advised you to use your influence to induce him
to be more with people.”

“I have tried to do so.” Mrs. Burnham was exerting her superb
self-control to keep her voice tranquil. “Without, however,
satisfactory results; now he even dislikes my society.”

Hayden glanced at her keenly. “A morbid tendency very often makes
people turn against those they love the most,” he said gently. “As
Burnham’s physical condition improves he will shake off his mental
depression. In my opinion, Mrs. Burnham,” he added more lightly, “half
the murders and suicides to-day are the result of a torpid liver.”

Mrs. Burnham’s answering smile was wan. “Then you think his, shall we
say, distorted views of people and events are the result of physical
illness reacting on his mental condition?”

“It is possible,” conceded Hayden; again he eyed her keenly. “You have
mentioned no specific case----”

“I am coming to that.” Mrs. Burnham bent forward in her earnestness.
“How much reliance can I place on my husband’s active dislike for
Captain René La Montagne and the charges he has brought against him?”

Hayden considered the question. “It is difficult to answer,” he
admitted, “I do not know the grounds, if any, your husband has for
hating--frankly, on the surface it amounts to that--” he added
hastily--“for hating the Frenchman.”

Mrs. Burnham colored painfully. “As I understand it, Captain La
Montagne was a passive witness of an unfortunate scene in a club in
Paris in which my husband did not--did not”--she faltered----“did not
cover himself with glory; but I must say, in justice to him, that he
was brought up in the tenets of the Quakers and dueling or fighting of
any kind is----”

“I know,” broke in Hayden kindly. “It is highly probable that Burnham
has become possessed of this notion, this dislike of La Montagne,
contradictory alike to common-sense and his own experience, until it
has developed into almost a monomania with him.”

Mrs. Burnham drew a long, long breath. “Then do you think he has
brooded over a long past incident and centered his resentment on La
Montagne until it has become an obsession?” she asked.

“Yes; so it seems to me.”

“Then you think he has taken the--the--shall we call it chance----”
Mrs. Burnham whitened--“the chance of that unidentified man having
been killed in our empty house, to involve Captain La Montagne in the
crime so as to punish him for an imaginary grievance,--in his mental
condition,--exaggerated out of all proportion to its real significance?”

“It may be,” Hayden hesitated, “but you must recollect that
circumstantial evidence also points to Captain La Montagne.”

“I do not place much confidence in circumstantial evidence,” declared
Mrs. Burnham. “Captain La Montagne if innocent, should have little
difficulty in proving it, but----” Mrs. Burnham cleared her voice of
a slight huskiness--“but I am willing to swear in any court that my
husband’s attitude toward him is due to mental irresponsibility.”

A spark of admiration kindled Hayden’s eyes as he gazed at the composed
woman seated before him; in his creed loyalty ranked high.

“Your claim seems justified by facts,” he said. “I would suggest----”

“What?”

“That you set the machinery in motion to have Mr. Burnham placed under
mental observation,” he added reluctantly.

Mrs. Burnham averted her gaze. “Only as a last resource,” she said.
“At present I wanted your views to assist me in deciding upon a course
of action.” She paused and he waited with silent attention. It was
some moments before she spoke again. “My daughter, Evelyn, wishes to
announce her engagement to Captain La Montagne to-day.”

“Oh!” Hayden sat back and contemplated her in surprise.

“Quite so.” Mrs. Burnham’s smile was wintry. “Evelyn’s behavior
complicates the situation,” she admitted with candor. “I have had quite
enough gossip about my private affairs;” her tone grew bitter. “People
perhaps do not think I know the things which were said at the time my
engagement to Mr. Burnham was announced, but there are always kind
friends;” she laughed mirthlessly. “Women do not spare their own sex,
doctor; even my daughter’s intimate friend, Marian Van Ness, stated I
only married Peter to get rid of him.”

The frantic ringing of the telephone bell interrupted her, and with a
hasty apology Hayden crossed the room to the instrument. Mrs. Burnham
seized the opportunity to relax in her chair; the interview had taxed
her strength. Happening to glance in the direction of the door she saw
the Japanese servant pass down the hall, long wall brush and dust pan
in hand; another instant and Dr. Hayden was back at her side.

“Evelyn is in a state of mind to do anything,” she stated, as he
resumed his seat. “She is quite as possessed in favor of Captain La
Montagne as my husband is opposed to him.”

“A pleasant situation for you,” acknowledged Hayden, and his
sympathetic manner was a tonic to her frayed nerves. “Do you anticipate
an elopement?”

“No, oh, no.” Mrs. Burnham spoke more rapidly than ordinarily. “Evelyn
simply desires the immediate public announcement of her engagement
under, in my opinion, a mistaken sense of loyalty to Captain La
Montagne. I have begged her to tell only her intimate friends and
relatives----”

“Ah! then you have agreed to the engagement?” asked Hayden quickly.

“Yes,” reluctantly. “Frankly, doctor, Evelyn’s condition this morning
worried me, and I thought the best thing to do was to accede as far as
possible to her wishes. It quieted her and she spent the remainder of
the night without seeing visions.”

“Visions!” exclaimed the astonished physician.

“Yes,” tartly. “I was awakened by a whistling noise which seemed to
come from Evelyn’s room, and on going in I found her sitting up in
bed, apparently frightened half out of her senses and declaring that
she saw against the opposite wall the unidentified dead man, sitting in
the chair as she had found him in the library on Tuesday afternoon.”

“Upon my word!” Hayden stared at Mrs. Burnham; she was certainly
serious in her statement. Was the entire Burnham household going mad,
or was his hearing defective?

“Evelyn seldom speaks of the scene in the library,” went on Mrs.
Burnham. “But finding the body must have made a greater impression upon
her than any of us realized. She was very much wrought up to a feverish
degree. Mrs. Ward told me this morning, by an interview she had with me
about René La Montagne just before going to bed, and I am afraid her
mind must have reverted back to the dead man and her mental distress
projected her vision of him on the wall,” ended Mrs. Burnham. “Isn’t
that what you physicians call it?”

Hayden looked puzzled. “An illusion--counterfeit appearances,” he
explained, “is an incorrect impression of the senses. Has Evelyn ever
had other illusions?”

“Never to my knowledge.” Mrs. Burnham rose. “I have left her in bed in
Mrs. Ward’s care. I wish you would come in sometime during the day
doctor, and see her. In the meantime, I can’t thank you enough----”
Mrs. Burnham’s fine eyes filled with tears and she stopped unable to
control her voice.

“My dear Mrs. Burnham,” Hayden shook her hand warmly. “Say no more; I
am only too delighted to be of service to you; you forget, but I do
not, your long years of kindness and hospitality to me.”

Taking her knitting bag from the sofa where she had dropped it, Mrs.
Burnham started for the door, and Hayden, snatching up his surgical bag
and hat, accompanied her out of the apartment and down in the elevator.

They had been gone fully five minutes before James Palmer rose from his
chair in the corner of the balcony and looked through the open window
into the empty living room.

“A clever woman, a very clever woman,” he commented aloud. Turning
abruptly he stepped through the French window opening into the hall of
his apartment and went in search of the Japanese, Siki.

“Go out on the balcony and put new electric bulbs in the bird-cage
lanterns,” he directed. “We want to sit out there to-night after
dinner.”

Not waiting for a reply he left the apartment and was just in time to
catch a descending elevator. The boy had shut the elevator door when
Palmer caught sight of Peter Burnham walking down the corridor, and he
had but time to call out: “Sorry to miss you; Hayden’s gone,” when the
elevator shot downward.

“I’ll wait for Hayden,” shouted Burnham, and a moment later was
explaining his presence and desires to the attentive Japanese.

Siki ushered him into the living room with a grand flourish, then went
off to execute his master’s orders with sublime disregard of Burnham’s
presence.

The morning papers first engaged Burnham’s attention; the chess table
added its fascination, but finally, tiring of both occupations, he
wandered over to the window opening upon the balcony, a tinkle of glass
having attracted his notice. He stood for some seconds looking out at
the Jap sweeping up pieces of a broken electric bulb and watched him
screw another in place in one of the silk-lined bird-cage lanterns.

“Siki,” he called. “Come here,” and as the Jap approached the window he
drew out a twenty dollar bill.

“See here, Siki,” he began insinuatingly. “You know Captain La Montagne
was in this apartment Thursday night just before the attempt was made
to shoot me.”

The Jap looked first at the bill and then at Burnham, his expression
inscrutable.

“Me understand, honorable sir,” he admitted and pocketed the money.




CHAPTER XX

IDENTIFICATION


MARIAN VAN NESS turned restlessly away from the window as her old
servant came into the sitting room.

“Are you quite sure no telephone call has come for me, Mammy?” she
asked with gentle insistence. Mammy’s antipathy to the telephone was
known to her; on occasions she had not answered it in Marian’s absence,
having confided to the cook in the next apartment that it was little
short of uncanny and she wanted nothing to do with the “devil’s works.”

“Aint been no call at all,” Mammy assured her with conviction. “I jes’
sat in my kitchen wif de do’ open alistenin’ fo’ dat and de do’ bell,
as yo’ said yo’ was ’spectin’ company; aint eben been in hyar to tidy
up.”

As she spoke Mammy proceeded to “set to rights,” as she termed it, the
mass of books, electric light paraphernalia and torches which littered
the window ledge and to put each chair in orderly array. Marian, who
had kept a luncheon engagement of some days’ standing and returned
afterward as promptly as possible to her apartment, moved away so that
her old servant would not see the keen disappointment her statement of
no callers and no telephone calls had given her.

Marian bitterly regretted the almost insane impulse which had prompted
her to seek out Dan Maynard the night before, to even leave a note--a
note he had ignored and left unanswered. Her cheeks burned at the
thought.

The bang of a heavy book which Mammy inadvertently let fall startled
her so that she dropped her ball of worsted which she was winding
with the aid of a chair back. Mammy’s rheumatic joints cracked as she
stooped over, but Marian was before her.

“Don’t bother, I’ll pick it up,” she said, and retrieving her ball,
which had rolled under a table, she sat back somewhat flushed from her
exertions, the book balanced open in her lap.

Looking more closely she saw it was an edition of “Who’s Who,” and in
sheer idleness turned over its leaves as she continued winding the
ball. Suddenly her eyes, traveling listlessly down one page, stopped,
arrested by Dan Maynard’s name. Putting aside the worsted, she lifted
up the book and read the long paragraph devoted to his accomplishments,
his stage career, and his place of birth--Berlin.

Mammy finished her work and seeing Marian sitting staring in absorbed
attention at an open book, concluded not to interrupt her reading, and
hobbled from the room. In the kitchen she paused to ruminate before
putting on her spotlessly clean white apron, her “Sunday best.”

“’Pears like Miss Marian aint herself no mo’,” she muttered,
sorrowfully. “Why dat man got ter com’ back an’ torment her mo’? I
s’pose de good Lord knows His business, but thar’s times when us
mortals could give Him p’ints. Laws! who dat?” The sudden clang of the
front door gong startling her into dropping her apron. Mammy’s heart
sank, when on opening the door a moment later, she gazed up into Dan
Maynard’s handsome face; and it was only with much self-restraint that
she managed to answer with any civility his inquiry for her beloved
“Miss Marian.”

Marian made no motion to rise as he entered and her frigid bow was far
from cordial. An awkward pause followed.

“Won’t you sit down?” she asked, finally, and Maynard with suppressed
indignation quietly took the chair next to hers; in doing so he
dislodged the worsted which she had carefully stretched across the
chair back.

“I beg your pardon,” he exclaimed contritely. “I never noticed the
worsted; very stupid of me.”

“Don’t bother, please.” Marian turned about and rested one hand on her
desk. “Have you brought back my blotter?”

Maynard sat upright, the neglected worsted at his feet.

“Your blotter?” he echoed. “What blotter is that?”

“The one you took from here Friday night.”

Maynard stared at her. “I am an absent-minded beggar,” he said, and his
smile was whimsical. “If I accidentally walked off with your blotter
that night I apologize and will bring you another one to-morrow.”

Marian stiffened. “I allude to the blotter I unfortunately used when
decoding a message from the State Department; the message on it was
very clear;” her voice stumbled as she met his astonished gaze. “The
blotter was missing the morning after your call.”

Slowly her meaning dawned on Maynard.

“Good God! Marian, do I understand you accuse me of stealing a blotter
with the imprint of a decoded message from the State Department on it?”
he demanded.

“Yes.” The monosyllable cost her an effort which Maynard’s indignation
blinded him to.

“You think me a spy, a traitor--_you_?” he stammered, his face gone
white.

“What else am I to think?” she retorted drearily. “Your unexpected and
unexplained return--oh, I know ‘war work’; war work, these days, like
charity sometimes covers a multitude of sins.”

“My war work----” began Maynard hotly, and stopped short.

“Your war work,” she repeated. “Well, is it for Uncle Sam or for the
Kaiser?”

Maynard held up a protesting hand. “Let us talk reasonably,” he said.
“There is no occasion for excitement. What induces you to think I am
working for the Kaiser?”

“Your fondness of the German people;” she stopped and spoke more
slowly. “Were you not born in Germany?”

“Surely.” Maynard’s smile showed his strong white teeth. “Accidents do
happen, Marian, even in the selection of a birth-place. My parents were
Americans, and my ancestors were Norman-French and Anglo-Saxon. You
cannot question my loyalty to Uncle Sam on those grounds.”

“Were you not decorated by the Kaiser?” demanded Marian, her blood
tingling at his faintly humorous manner of taking her serious
accusation.

“I was, several years ago.” Maynard’s smile disappeared. “Suppose I
answer what must come next in your ‘_questionnaire_’,” he suggested
and a certain sternness crept into voice and manner. “I can give you
no account of my whereabouts during the past twelve months, or----” He
paused--“my occupation. Come, Marian, old comrade, take me on faith?”
and he flung out both hands, his voice soft and winning.

“If I only could!” He caught the look that flamed her eyes and the next
instant she was in his arms, his voice dangerously sweet as he murmured
loving, adoring words in her ear, and then holding her close he kissed
her passionately. Suddenly she broke from his embrace.

“No, no,” she cried. “I sent you away once and I must do so again. It
was madness on your part to break down the barrier----”

“The barrier, Marian, no longer exists,” he stated softly, and she
sprang up.

“What do you mean?” she demanded breathlessly.

He answered her question with another: “Did you see the unidentified
dead man whom Evelyn found Tuesday afternoon in the Burnham library?”

“I? See him?” His eyes never left her white strained face, but she was
unconscious of his scrutiny. “No, I did not see the man. Why?”

For reply Maynard unbuttoned his coat and took from an inner pocket a
photograph and handed it to her. In silence she stared at the dead man
sitting in the library chair; in silence she looked up at Maynard.

“He’s dead,” she stammered. “Really dead?”

“Yes--thank God!” answered Maynard, and at the look which crept into
his eyes she turned and with a low cry pillowed her head on her arms
across the desk and lay as one dead.

Maynard waited in silence for fully five minutes, then he called her
softly.

“Can I be of service?” he asked. A shake of her head was the only sign
that he heard.

“Do you wish me to stay?” he asked, and had to stoop to catch her
muffled: “No.”

Picking up his hat in the hall he paused in uncertainty; then
recollection of Mammy’s presence in the apartment convinced him that he
was not leaving Marian alone, and opening the door he went slowly down
the corridor to the elevator shaft.

He had been gone a scant three minutes when Mammy’s black face peered
out from Marian’s bedroom; a second later she was by Marian’s side.
At her loving touch Marian sat up and Mammy’s glance strayed from her
blanched face to the photograph lying face up on the desk.

“I heerd all,” she said in a husky whisper. “An’ he’s daid,” touching
the photograph. “’Peers like de Lord do know His business, but de
debble musta sent Marse Dan to de Burnham house on Monday night.”

“H--h--ush!” And Marian clasped her in an agonizing grip as her
terrified eyes swept the pretty room. “Hush!”




CHAPTER XXI

UNMASKED


MAYNARD, swinging his cane jauntily as he strode along, paused a few
steps from the Bellevue Apartment House and swore softly; he had
entirely forgotten the errand which had, ostensibly, taken him to see
Marian. Retracing his footsteps he persuaded the telephone operator to
give him a small envelope and writing on his visiting card: “Evelyn
wishes to see you at your earliest convenience,” he enclosed it in the
envelope, and insured its immediate delivery by a liberal tip to the
grinning elevator boy.

His conscience once again clear he hastened around to the Burnhams’ and
reached that hospitable home just as Jones appeared on the doorstep
intent on summoning a newsboy whose shrill shout of “_Sunday Times_”
could be heard a block away.

Maynard paused by the butler’s side. “Get a paper for me also,” he
directed, producing some pennies.

“Don’t bother, sir,” protested Jones. “I always gets four for the
house, sir; I have the money right here.” In hunting for his change
the butler resurrected a folded paper. His face fell at sight of it.
“Heavens, sir; I forgot to give you this,” he gasped in consternation.
“Mrs. Van Ness--that is----” Suddenly recollecting that Marian had
requested him not to mention her presence at the house the night
before, he pulled himself up short and under pretence of saving the
newsboy steps he went forward to meet him.

[Illustration: WHITE TO PLAY AND MATE IN TWO MOVES.]

But the maneuver was unnecessary. Maynard had forgotten the butler’s
existence. His entire attention was concentrated on the small piece
of paper which upon unfolding, proved to be a chess problem diagram.
Underneath it was written: “White to play and mate in two moves.”

For several seconds Maynard studied the position of the men, then
wheeling about he raced up the staircase and disappeared in his
bedroom, in his haste utterly ignoring Mrs. Burnham’s friendly greeting
as he passed her in the hall.

Mrs. Burnham frowned at his closed door in surprised indignation;
discourtesy in any form was like a red rag to a bull to her, and making
up her mind that she would exact full apology from Maynard later on,
she continued on her way to Evelyn’s bedroom. There she found Evelyn,
fully dressed, sitting on the edge of her bed, one hand pressed to her
side and her face the color of the bed sheets.

“Mother, please get me some aromatic spirits of ammonia,” she begged.
“I thought I was stronger----”

“I told you to remain in bed,” retorted Mrs. Burnham in marked
displeasure. “Remember, your promise----”

“Oh, mother, don’t argue,” gasped Evelyn. “I really think I am going to
faint.”

“Tut, nonsense!” responded Mrs. Burnham; she had small sympathy with
hysterics, and Evelyn seemed on the verge of indulging in them. She
raised her voice as footsteps stopped outside the door: “Who’s there?”

“Me, ma’am, Jones,” replied the butler, holding the door ajar. “Coroner
Penfield to see Miss Evelyn.”

A faint “Oh!” from the bed reached Mrs. Burnham and her hesitation
vanished.

“Tell the coroner we will see him shortly, Jones; show him into the
library; he has the key, I believe,” and as the butler closed the door
she approached the bed and handed Evelyn a glass of water. “Drink some
of that, dear,” she said more sympathetically. “I will bring you some
ammonia; lie down until I return.”

Not waiting to see her directions carried out, Mrs. Burnham went at
once to her dressing room and unlocked her medicine cabinet. The bottle
she sought was not in front, and in moving some of the phials to see
the better she was confronted with a small blue bottle bearing the
ominous red sign “POISON”, and the label:

  Acid Hydrocynan dil Dose 1-3 minims

The bottle drew her hand as the North Pole attracts the magnet. Holding
it up to the light she tipped the bottle and the small amount of
hydrocyanic acid remaining in it showed plainly. She hesitated a long
moment, then secreted the bottle in her hand-bag. Spotting the ammonia
after a second search she hastened back to Evelyn and gave her a small
dose.

“Do you feel equal to seeing the coroner?” she asked.

Evelyn nodded. “It was foolish of me to make a scene,” she admitted.
“But I am weaker than I realized. Will you come with me, Mother?”

“Yes, my dear,” and slipping her hand within Evelyn’s she gently helped
her across the hall and into the library.

There was distinct rumbling of thunder and the darkness preceding the
heavy electrical storms, almost tropical in their violence, which visit
Washington occasionally, was creeping up; even the air was oppressive
and Mrs. Burnham shivered involuntarily as she entered the library with
Evelyn and greeted the coroner.

“Sorry to keep you waiting,” she said graciously. “My daughter is not
very well, so you must excuse us.”

“I’ll not detain you long, Miss Preston.” Penfield noted Evelyn’s
haggard appearance with concern. “There are just one or two questions
I must ask you; for instance, did you on your arrival here Tuesday
morning wind that clock?” pointing to the mantel.

“No, but it was going,” replied Evelyn positively.

“Ah, then some one besides yourself wound it.” The coroner’s air of
triumph at having established his theory of the house being occupied in
the absence of the Burnhams was quickly dashed by Mrs. Burnham.

“The clock runs for a year,” she stated. “We wound it last June.”

“Oh!” The coroner stared at her in acute disappointment, then continued
more briskly: “Can you tell me, Mrs. Burnham, if you have any cherry
brandy in your wine cellar?”

“We had last year some cherry cordial--we call it ‘Cherry Bounce’,”
explained Mrs. Burnham; she winced slightly as a peal of thunder echoed
through the house. “Would you mind pulling down the curtains? I am
deathly afraid of lightning--one of my idiosyncrasies,” she added, and
the coroner hastened to pull the long curtains across the windows.

“Do you know whether any of this Cherry Bounce was left in your cellar
when you closed the house for the summer, Mrs. Burnham?” inquired
Penfield, returning to them.

Mrs. Burnham shook her head. “I really cannot inform you; Mrs. Ward, my
housekeeper, may be able to tell you.” Mrs. Burnham changed her seat
to one facing the doorway and with her back to the windows. “Why do you
want to know?”

“Because the dose of prussic acid, or to be exact, hydrocyanic acid,
which was used to poison the unknown man, was administered in cherry
brandy--or cordial; it is practically the same thing,” explained
Penfield. “I am trying to find out if it was possible for the murderer
to have gotten those ingredients in this house.”

Mrs. Burnham looked her astonishment. “By ingredients do you mean the
cordial or the poison?” she questioned suavely, laying one hand on her
bag as it threatened to slip off her lap.

“The cordial.” Coroner Penfield took out his memorandum book. “Not a
thing apparently was found out of place by you or any of your servants;
not even a chair misplaced; no soiled glasses, plates, or cups; and yet
the dead man and his companion or companions must have been carousing
together--it is most extraordinary.”

“It is very evident they were not carousing here,” replied Mrs. Burnham
tartly. “You will have to travel abroad to find the motive, the
criminal, and the scene of the crime.”

Evelyn looked up in quick rebuke. What did her mother mean by her
cryptic remark--to involve René?

“Travel abroad,” repeated the coroner thoughtfully. “To some extent we
have done that; a warrant has been issued for the arrest of that young
French ‘Ace’, Captain La Montagne, and we hope to have news of his
whereabouts before night.”

“You can have news of his whereabouts now,” declared Evelyn before her
mother could intervene. “My fiancé, Captain La Montagne, is dining with
us to-night.”

“Your fiancé!” Penfield stared, astounded. “Do you mean you are engaged
to the man your step-father accuses of the murder of this unknown man?”

“I am,” proudly, “Captain La Montagne is entirely innocent of any
crime; on that I will stake my reputation and if need be, my life.”

“_Mon coeur, mon coeur!_” exclaimed a passionate voice from the hall
and René La Montagne sped to Evelyn’s side regardless of their presence
and kissed her again and again. With one arm encircling her waist he
faced the staggered coroner and Mrs. Burnham, and addressed them in
English. “What Miss Preston states is true. I knew not of the crime
until I read of it in the newspapers; I knew not the victim; I knew not
this house until my arrival a few minutes ago.”

Another figure hovering in the hall just outside the door joined the
group in the library.

“What you say is true in every particular save one, Captain,” stated
Marian Van Ness clearly; she paused and stepped to one side to let
Detective Mitchell and James Palmer enter. “You knew the dead man.”

“I, madame?” La Montagne gazed at her incredulously.

“Yes.” Marian drew in her breath sharply; she was keeping herself well
in hand except for the nervous twitching of her fingers. Her eyes
roved around the group--Dan Maynard was not there. She passed her
handkerchief across her lips. “Yes, you knew him, Captain La Montagne,”
she continued. “He had often threatened your life.”

“Marian!” Evelyn’s anguish almost broke down the other’s composure, but
she continued to regard the Frenchman steadily. None of the group about
her were aware of the butler’s approach until he announced from the
doorway:

“Dr. Hayden to see Miss Evelyn,” and Jones stepped back to allow
the physician to enter, but curiosity kept him loitering near the
door within earshot. In his absorption in what was transpiring in
the library he never noticed the stealthy approach of Mrs. Ward. The
housekeeper, choosing her opportunity with care, slipped unseen behind
one of the portières of the library door.

Hayden stopped on the threshold of the library and gazed in amazement
at the tense attitude of Mrs. Burnham and her guests.

“Come in, doctor,” she said. “Mrs. Van Ness is about to tell us----”
her face was like paper--“the name of the dead man.”

La Montagne, paying no attention to the others, gazed intently at
Marian.

“The man’s name, madame,” he demanded impetuously. “Give us his name.”

“Count Fritz von Eltz,” responded Marian. An oath escaped La Montagne
while Mrs. Burnham collapsed on a chair.

“Marian--you don’t mean--your husband?” she gasped.

Marian’s face was like marble. “I do,” she said. “He was my divorced
husband; the courts permitted me to resume my maiden name. I never knew
he was in this country until this morning.”

“I was not sure he was in Washington,” volunteered La Montagne. “But
I had heard, no matter how, that he had come to America. Ours was a
quarrel of long standing, gentlemen; frankly, had I met him I would
have killed him at sight.”

“Hush, René!” and impulsively Evelyn clapped her hand to his lips.

“_Non, non, mon coeur_; it is best I tell these gentlemen of my
animosity to Von Eltz. He was a reptile; no crime was too revolting for
his infernal cunning to undertake. The world is better without him.”

“Was he a German spy?” asked Mitchell.

“But of course, monsieur.” La Montagne laughed at the question. “Pouf!
why waste time discussing his death? Let us congratulate ourselves and
this fortunate lady in being free of him,” and he bowed low to Marian.

“That’s all very heroic,” remarked Mitchell ironically. “But we
have laws in this country, Captain; and we’ve got to abide by them.
Somebody’s got to be punished for murdering Von Eltz.”

A sudden shout from the next room startled Evelyn and she swung about
just as Mrs. Burnham, her face ashen, started for the door leading into
her husband’s bedroom. A premonition of impending evil made Evelyn
follow her. The coroner, speeding ahead, unlocked the door.

“Come,” Evelyn called over her shoulder to the others and they flocked
after her; Jones, bringing up the rear of the little procession, almost
collided with James Palmer who lagged behind the others.

Peter Burnham, sitting up in bed, his hands clutching numerous papers
while others were scattered loose over the counterpane, glared at
his wife and those back of her until he saw James Palmer; then his
expression changed to one of impotent fury.

“You, Palmer----” his voice choked with rage--“it was you who shot at
me from the window in your apartment, you treacherous hound!”

Palmer stared over the heads of his companions and his expression
caused Marian to shrink back.

“What’s that you say?” he demanded. “Here, let me by,” and he pushed
Hayden to one side as he made his way to the foot of the bed. “Are you
out of your head, Burnham?”

“No. I’ve just found out to what use you have put my chess
correspondence. I have all the evidence,” shouted Burnham, his
excitement almost uncontrollable. “I have discovered the key----” A
sudden sensation of suffocation overcame him and he fell back on his
pillow speechless, the papers fluttering from his palsied fingers.

“Quick, doctor,” pleaded Mrs. Burnham, while Detective Mitchell, his
mind in a whirl, edged nearer Palmer, at the same time keeping an alert
eye on René La Montagne who had drawn Evelyn to one side and shielded
her from the sight of the pitiful figure on the bed.

Marian Van Ness started forward to aid Hayden, but the sight of Mrs.
Ward, her eyes agleam with excitement, perspiration streaming down her
face, as she crept into the room, diverted her attention. Back of Mrs.
Ward came Jones, intent only on watching the housekeeper.

Hayden, his quiet professional manner in striking contrast to the
excitement about him, prepared some stimulant and then bent over
Burnham. Slipping his arm deftly under the unconscious man’s head he
lifted him up and placed the small glass to his lips and tipped it
slowly upward.

The next instant the glass was plucked from his grasp and an iron hand
hurled him to the floor.

“Quick, Mitchell, there’s your prisoner!” shouted the man in the bed,
and with leaping pulses and reeling senses Marian recognized Dan
Maynard’s voice.

Tossing aside his make-up, Maynard set down the glass he still held and
collared the physician as he struggled to his knees. “Your prisoner,”
he said tersely, as Mitchell sprang forward. “Lewis Hayden, German spy
and would-be murderer.”




CHAPTER XXII

THE MISSING DIAGRAMS


MRS. BURNHAM was the first to arouse from the stupor which had held her
and her companions equally silent.

“My husband!” she gasped. “Where is Peter?” Maynard, relaxing his hold
on his prisoner as Mitchell slipped handcuffs on his wrists, swung
himself out of bed.

“There’s Burnham coming in the door now with Chief Connor,” he stated,
and all turned in that direction. Burnham, his eyes half starting out
of his head, looked first at Hayden, then at La Montagne, and last at
James Palmer.

“Good God! Wasn’t it either La Montagne or Palmer?” he demanded.

“La Montagne and Palmer are innocent,” announced Maynard. “When I
impersonated you, Burnham, and not for the first time--” he smiled
at Hayden’s furious look--“I used Palmer as a stalking horse. The
announcement that I had the key to the German’s cipher code did the
trick. You were quick, Hayden,” addressing the physician whose
ghastly face and horror-filled eyes testified to his feelings. “It was
infernally clever of you to seize the opportunity to administer poison
under pretext of reviving a supposedly dying man, and thus prevent his
ever exposing you and the key to the cipher.”

Coroner Penfield pressed forward. “Can you prove it, Maynard?”

“Yes; examine that glass,” directed Maynard, pointing to the one he
had taken from the physician. “Ah, Hayden, you slipped up in your
cleverness--though had I been the man you took me for, you would have
succeeded in poisoning me, and right under the eyes of Coroner Penfield
and Detective Mitchell. God! man, why couldn’t you remain straight,
instead of resorting to trickery, treachery, and murder!”

Hayden’s eyes fell before Maynard’s piercing gaze and he stood in
sullen silence. Coroner Penfield, moving the medicine glass gently to
and fro, sniffed at its contents, and when he set the glass down his
face was white.

“Prussic acid!” he announced. “Enough to kill you in three seconds if
you had swallowed it, Maynard.”

“Yes. It was the unmistakable odor of the poison which warned me as
Hayden held it under my nose.” Maynard took off Burnham’s dressing
gown which he wore over his own clothes. “The game is up, Hayden; you
might as well confess.”

For the first time Hayden broke his silence. “Confess to what?” he
asked insolently. “I did not murder you and I did not murder Count
Fritz von Eltz. You--” and his accusing voice rang through the
room--“you, Maynard, did that.”

Marian raised her hand to her lips to check the cry of terror which
almost escaped her as Mitchell moved slightly toward Maynard.

“Your guess is wrong, Hayden,” answered Maynard composedly. “I did not
murder Von Eltz--he killed himself.”

“A likely tale!” scoffed Hayden, with a return of his habitual
dictatorial manner.

“A true tale,” responded Maynard sternly. “I admit Von Eltz did not
intentionally commit suicide, but he innocently drank the poison he had
prepared for me.”

“What!” chorused his listeners, and Hayden’s stare of unbelief became
one of baffled fury.

“I will make my explanations as brief as possible,” began Maynard.
“While in Europe I have been of some assistance working for the
Intelligence Service of our Allies, my ability to disguise myself
and my experience as an actor being valuable aids in my work.” He
glanced at Marian, but her eyes were downcast. “While in Switzerland
my suspicions were aroused by the great frequency with which chess
problems were going and coming from Germany--they have been allowed
through the mails from every country since the outbreak of the world
war.”

“Of course,” broke in Burnham impatiently. “Chess problems are always
interesting and help the study of tactical problems by officers in war
time.”

“And chess has proved a valuable aid to Germany in more ways than
one,” remarked Maynard dryly. “Realizing the use that might be made of
problem diagrams to a nation which excels in cipher codes, I decided to
look into the matter--and from this end.”

“When was that?” asked Palmer, leaving his place at the foot of the
bed. “Can’t we have the light switched on?” he added. “The storm is
making the room fearfully dark.”

Marian stepped back and pressed the wall button and the room was
flooded with light.

“Go on, Mr. Maynard,” directed Chief Connor.

“My suspicions were aroused a month ago and I came to this country
ostensibly to take part in training camp activities. I remembered your
interest in chess, Burnham, and decided to ask your aid; in fact sent
a wireless when off New York telling you I was coming to Washington.”
Maynard paused to sip a glass of water, carefully avoiding the
medicine glass standing next it on the bed stand. “I reached Washington
Monday afternoon.”

Chief Connor nodded. “So I was informed by the taxi-driver, Sam,” he
said. “Sam had called to lay information against you, Maynard, just
before your telephone came asking me to come here. Sam is now under
arrest.”

A piercing scream from Mrs. Ward drew all eyes to the housekeeper, and
Chief Connor addressed her sternly.

“Sam finally confessed that he was your son,” he stated. “And he
implicated you in this far reaching German plot which Mr. Maynard has
unearthed so cleverly. Sam confessed you had given him duplicate keys
of this house and that he had passed them over for a consideration to
a ‘party’ whose name he would not divulge, even under pressure.” Chief
Connor turned to Hayden. “He meant _you_.”

“Did he?” Hayden smiled contemptuously. “Prove it; there is no law
which forces a suspected party to incriminate himself.”

“We don’t need further proof,” interrupted Maynard with significant
emphasis. “Sam----”

“Had nothing to do with Count von Eltz’ death,” declared Mrs. Ward
vehemently, her bloodshot eyes turning pleadingly to first one and then
another. “Sam is a good boy, but led astray by----” She stopped and
bit her lip.

“I know he had nothing to do with the tragic happenings on Monday
night,” responded Maynard quickly, taking pity on the woman’s evident
agony. “Let me complete my story. Upon my arrival, I telephoned this
house and a voice I did not recognize told me that Mr. Burnham was out
of town but would be back in two days. I had seen in the newspapers
that La Montagne was in Washington and hunted him up. At the Burlington
I found the desk clerk so busy that I got the number of your room,
René, from an elevator boy and went, unattended, directly to it. I
found the door open and a charwoman just leaving. On explaining that I
was a friend of yours, she let me in and went away.”

“She never told me that any one had called,” exclaimed La Montagne.

“Forgot all about it probably,” went on Maynard. “I got rather restless
sitting still waiting for you, and looked about for something to read.
A letter lying open with a key holding it down attracted my attention.”
Maynard flushed. “I don’t usually read private correspondence, René,
and you must forgive the breach of manners, but on seeing Burnham’s
signature at the bottom of the page, I took the liberty to glance down
it, and his statement that he would be at his house that night, and
that he sent you the key to enter because the house was _unoccupied_,
instantly piqued my curiosity. The statement was directly contrary to
what I had learned over the telephone half an hour before. Acting on
impulse I pocketed Burnham’s key and left the apartment.”

“_Mon Dieu!_” ejaculated La Montagne in open-eyed astonishment.

“In one of my disguises I went to Burnham’s house that night,” went on
Maynard. “It is some years since I have been in Washington and in the
driving rainstorm I got confused and had to ask how to find the house.”

“I was the person you asked,” stated Marian, interrupting him. “Your
voice--” she stopped and continued softly--“your voice was familiar,
but I did not recognize you in your make-up. My servant, Mammy, who was
with me, answered your question.”

“And I failed to recognize you in the storm for you were so bundled
up,” replied Maynard. “On reaching this house I was admitted by a
man I had not seen for years, Count Fritz von Eltz. He had attempted
to conceal his identity by dying his hair and shaving his beard and
mustache, but his disguise was badly done.” Maynard paused. “I gave an
assumed name and showed a faked telegram from Burnham. I could see
Von Eltz was doubtful how to act; he dared not turn me away for fear
I might investigate his right to be in the house, and he did the only
thing he could--invited me in and took me up to his quarters, saying
Burnham had permitted him to occupy the house in his absence.”

“He did!” Mrs. Burnham’s indignant interruption caused Maynard to look
at her. “Where was he living in this house?”

“In the housekeeper’s suite of rooms on the third floor,” explained
Maynard, and Mrs. Ward cowered back under their glances. “One thing
and then another led Shipman--that was the name Von Eltz gave me--to
suggest a game of chess and I jumped at the opportunity. We played most
of the night, but during his many frequent absences, I heard him at the
telephone downstairs, presumably trying to reach you, Hayden,” and the
physician clenched his fists in wrath.

“Pity you didn’t get the ’phone numbers he was calling,” remarked Chief
Connor.

“I didn’t try to get the numbers; another and more imperative matter
engaged my attention, in his absence,” answered Maynard. “Among Von
Eltz’ papers I found a set of problem diagrams, and on examining them
the preponderance of pieces to pawns struck my eyes, but this was
explained momentarily by the reflection that the composer had probably
assigned himself a definite task which involved a certain specified
number of men. When Von Eltz next absented himself from the room, I
went over the problem diagrams again.” Maynard paused, and Burnham
edged nearer, his eyes shining with excitement.

[Illustration: WHITE TO PLAY AND MATE IN THREE MOVES.]

“One position had a white pawn on rook’s eighth, another a white pawn
on the king’s square,” continued Maynard.

“One I would have passed as a misprint, a hasty setting down of the
wrong man, but hardly two such errors in six diagrams, and I concluded,
weighing the presence of Von Eltz under an assumed name in the house,
that I had stumbled on a very serious message coded in the innocent
disguise of chess problems.”

[Illustration: WHITE TO PLAY AND MATE IN FOUR MOVES.]

“What did you do then?” demanded Burnham.

“Continued to play the game,” answered Maynard. “But before Von Eltz
returned I insured his sleeping soundly that night by pouring a small
amount of diluted hyoscine, which I carry with me for insomnia, in one
of the liqueur glasses containing cherry cordial which Von Eltz had
brought upstairs earlier in the evening.”

“Quite sure it was not hydrocyanic acid?” asked Hayden, and both tone
and manner were as insulting as he could make them.

“Quite,” answered Maynard. “My idea was to insure Von Eltz sleeping
soundly while I ransacked the house in search of other evidence of
German espionage and intrigue.”

“Just a moment,” Chief Connor broke in. “Did Von Eltz bring up only two
glasses of cordial?”

“Only two glasses, but a decanter of the cordial,” responded Maynard.
“He sipped his at intervals, possibly as a bracer, but I drank
sparingly. Frankly, my mind was so engaged with the problem of securing
the chess diagrams without his suspecting it, that I paid little
attention to what he did. I do remember, however, that previous to a
vivid flash of lightning, followed by terrific thunder, which put out
our lights temporarily, Von Eltz had refilled both glasses, and at his
urging I tossed off mine just before I went to bed.”

“Well, what then?” demanded Hayden. The strain was telling on him and
he sought to hurry Maynard’s leisurely speech.

“Then, contrary to my expectations, I slept heavily all night,”
answered Maynard, unruffled by his questioner’s manner. “On rising I
went into the sitting room, Von Eltz having insisted that I should
occupy his bed and he take the sofa there, and I found him lying on the
floor--dead.”

Coroner Penfield broke the silence that followed. “When did you make
this discovery?”

“About eight in the morning.”

“Good gracious! Were you hiding in the house when I arrived at ten
o’clock?” gasped Evelyn.

“No. I was stunned by my discovery, but half awake, and my first
thought was that I had inadvertently given Von Eltz an overdose of
hyoscine and killed him,” explained Maynard. “In my confused state of
mind, I dressed immediately and left the house, taking my suit case,
which I had brought with me, as well as the six chess problem diagrams;
first, however, I searched Von Eltz’ body and found nothing--not even
a pocket handkerchief. I overlooked the string which you discovered
later, Penfield.”

“And which I promptly lost,” and the coroner made a wry face.

“I took it unseen from your pocket when coming out of my faint,”
volunteered Mrs. Ward from the background. “I was in mortal terror Sam
was mixed up in the man’s death and so I also stole the ball of cord
out of Mr. Burnham’s library; I knew he used it to send his parcels
abroad, and I gave the cord to Sam. He told me, Miss Evelyn, that he
accidentally handed you a piece from the ball when helping you gather
up your bundles.”

“So that was it!” and Evelyn sighed with relief; the tangled skein was
rapidly unwinding and brighter hours seemed ahead with the clearing of
the mystery. “Where did you go after leaving here, Mr. Maynard?”

“To the home of an old ‘dresser’ of mine who is still employed in a
local theater,” replied Maynard. “He took me in without requiring
explanations, and after a bath and something to eat I was again in
condition to reason things out. I concluded to return here that
afternoon, await developments, and if possible find out if Burnham was
in any way aiding the Germans by the loan of his house, and by using
his established reputation as a chess expert to cloak their method of
passing valuable information in and out of Germany.”

“Heavens! I knew nothing of it!” gasped Burnham, appalled. “I assure
you, Maynard, I had no idea----”

“I know that now,” acknowledged Maynard quickly. “After my bath I went
over the chess problem diagrams again, and this time my examination
became more technical and its results increased my suspicions of a
code.” Maynard paused, and took from his pocket small squares of paper
and laid them systematically in front of him on the bed.

[Illustration: WHITE TO PLAY AND MATE IN THREE MOVES.]

[Illustration: WHITE TO PLAY AND MATE IN FOUR MOVES.]

[Illustration: WHITE TO PLAY AND MATE IN THREE MOVES.]

[Illustration: WHITE TO PLAY AND MATE IN THREE MOVES.]

“Examining the top rank of each diagram from left to right,” continued
Maynard, “I noticed that the first and fifth squares were the most
frequently occupied. This suggested that the squares represented the
first and fifth letters of the alphabet, the important vowels a and
e. Taking a blank diagram I wrote out the twenty-six letters of the
alphabet on the squares in sequence, filling somewhat less than the
top half of the board. Then I chose the letters indicated on the first
diagram by the white pieces, in the usually accepted order of their
powers, King, Queen, Castle, Bishop, Knight, and Pawn. I was rewarded
by the two startling words: ‘New gas’.”

“Well, well, go on,” pleaded Burnham, his excitement outrunning
Maynard’s deliberation of speech.

“The black pieces were not yet accounted for,” went on Maynard. “So I
repeated the alphabet a second time, beginning with ‘a’ on the third
square from the left on the fourth rank from the top of the board.
This yielded the phrase: ‘New gas to be us----’, and there I stuck,”
he admitted. “I floundered about hopelessly making little sense of the
remainder of the diagrams, and then I concluded that I had failed to
secure all the diagrams of the set. That clinched my determination to
return here and search for other diagrams. I arrived, as you know,
just after Evelyn discovered Von Eltz’ body. With the pressing need of
finding the missing diagrams without betraying my knowledge of their
existence, I decided to keep my own counsel and play a lone hand.”

“Did you get the missing diagrams?” demanded Burnham.

“I found one among Palmer’s blue prints in his office Friday
afternoon----”

“You did!” Palmer shouted the interruption, reddening hotly. “This is
the first I have ever heard of these diagrams----”

“I know it,” acknowledged Maynard. “You accidentally carried the
diagram off among your papers from Hayden’s desk in your apartment, eh,
Hayden?” but the physician made no answer and Maynard continued his
explanation. “Frankly, Palmer, on finding the diagram I thought you
guilty until--I’m sorry,” and Maynard glanced contritely at Palmer,
observing his hurt expression.

“It’s all right,” he mumbled ungraciously. “What about the diagram you
found in my office?”

“It made seven diagrams in my possession,” responded Maynard, “and
applying the same key, I then had half the message, but it was not
until Jones gave me a note from Mrs. Van Ness this afternoon that I got
the last diagram; here,” and taking a folded paper from his pocket
he laid it alongside the other diagrams and Burnham and Palmer bent
eagerly over them. “This is the message coded there in its entirety:
‘New gas to be used selenium fluoride. Ordinary absorbents useless.
Start Reichanstalt on search for antidote.’”

Marian turned impulsively to Maynard. “Well done!” she exclaimed. “But
I never sent you any diagram.”

“Your message--” Maynard picked up the paper and reversed it--“is
written here. Where did you get the paper?”

“I gave it to her,” spoke up Jones, edging slightly forward. “It was on
the hall table.”

“That was where I found the bundle of diagrams which I gave Mr. Burnham
yesterday,” volunteered Evelyn. “Perhaps I dropped one there; the
package was not tied.”

“Perhaps, but--” Maynard eyed Hayden attentively--“investigation proved
pretty conclusively, Burnham, that your innocent chess correspondence
was being tampered with and used to forward and receive coded problem
diagrams. It was clever work, Hayden, but you blundered badly when you
attempted to shoot Burnham on Thursday night.”

“I did not,” declared Hayden vehemently. “Even you, Maynard, must admit
I sat by his side at the table. The shot came from the balcony.”

“It did--when you pressed the electric button,” stated Maynard, and
his words created a sensation. “A very neat contrivance you rigged
up in the wicker bird-cage lantern; its small open door attracted
no attention on that pitch dark night, and the revolver in it was
completely hidden.”

Hayden moved restlessly. “A pleasant fairy-tale,” he muttered.

“No, gospel truth,” retorted Maynard. “In yours and Palmer’s absence
this morning I made a thorough examination of your apartment, your Jap,
Siki, taking me for Burnham in my disguise. I aided him in removing the
electric wires which had been used to hold the revolver in the lantern
and connected with the trigger; also, I took full note of the fact that
the lantern, by aid of a pulley on which it swings, can be raised or
lowered at will. The electric current which pressed the trigger was
supplied and controlled by the electric wires running from the bell
attached to the dining table and the pantry. That was the bell the Jap
heard when you fired the revolver at Burnham.”

“Was it?” snarled Hayden. “Your statement is not borne out by facts.
Fully five minutes elapsed before Palmer and Burnham rushed into the
hall after the shooting and they found Siki answering the bell then,
which had just rung.”

“Siki distorted the truth to shield his negligence,” replied Maynard.
“On investigation I found he was out on the fire-escape talking to
your neighbor’s pretty cook, and he was late in answering the bell in
consequence.”

“I am glad Siki’s leaving,” declared Palmer. “If he had been prompt
that night La Montagne might have been spared some uneasy moments.” He
shrugged his shoulders and looked away from Evelyn; he could not bear
with equanimity just then her happy face as she stood by her lover.
“I noticed the lantern hung pretty low that night but never gave it
another thought. It swings directly in front of the balcony window.”

“And right in line with where Burnham sat,” added Maynard. “I made
another interesting discovery, Hayden, in your apartment, the
significance of which I did not recognize until later, and that was
magic lantern slides on which was drawn in colors a picture of this
string,” taking the familiar red and green cord from his pocket, “and a
very excellent likeness of Von Eltz sitting dead in his chair. I also
saw that Palmer’s window was at such an angle that the slides could be
thrown directly in Evelyn’s bedroom. It was a bit of deviltry which,
frankly, infuriated me.”

“Thank God it was no illusion on my part!” exclaimed Evelyn fervently.
“But, Mother, you must have seen the dead man as well as I?”

Mrs. Burnham blushed hotly. “I did,” she confessed. “But I recognized
the man as one who had traveled to Chelsea to blackmail my husband;
and, God forgive me, I feared Mr. Burnham had met him here and, in a
moment of desperation, poisoned him with some of the hydrocyanic acid
which had been prescribed for stomach disorders for him when we were
in Florida last winter. I knew the bottle was in the house somewhere,
that we had plenty of cherry cordial, and that Mr. Burnham had left for
Washington on Monday.”

Burnham, who had listened with increasing anxiety, exclaimed hurriedly:
“My train did not reach here until early Tuesday morning and I went
to a Turkish bath and later got my breakfast and lunch down town;
then came up to this house, saw the windows opened, and on entering
went directly to the library and rang for Jones, supposing he was
downstairs. Glancing about the library I saw the dead man, Von Eltz,
or Shipman, as I knew him; realized I had promised to meet him that
afternoon; that I had threatened to make trouble if he blackmailed me
again, and not stopping to think bolted out of the house and into the
taxi which was still standing at the curb.”

“But I don’t understand how the dead man got in the library,” exclaimed
Evelyn.

Hayden raised his head and addressed them sullenly. “I carried him
there,” he admitted. “There’s a side entrance to our apartment house
which opens directly on your court, Burnham, and with the pass-keys
which Sam gave me, I could enter this house at any hour unobserved.
I came in about two o’clock Tuesday and stole upstairs to Von Eltz’
usual quarters and found him lying there dead. It was a fearful shock.”
Hayden passed his hand across his mouth. “I was uncertain whether Von
Eltz had committed suicide or been murdered, or who had murdered him. I
decided to destroy all evidence of his having occupied the rooms, and
did so; no very difficult job, as Von Eltz had planned to go on Tuesday
anyway, and we had sent away practically everything.”

“Why did you carry the body into the library?” asked Maynard.

“I was carrying it into the basement intending to destroy it with
quick-lime,” explained Hayden. “Hearing some one, Evelyn, I found out
later, moving about downstairs, I gave up my original plan, propped the
body in the chair in the library and disappeared. Mitchell,” turning to
the detective, “I have committed no crime. Take off these handcuffs.”

“Wait,” directed Chief Connor, as Mitchell stared uncertainly at his
prisoner and at Maynard. “Turn Dr. Hayden over to the Department of
Justice officials, Mitchell. You have been guilty of high treason, sir,
and must pay the penalty. Sam, the taxi-driver, states Von Eltz brought
you the Iron Cross for your work.” Mitchell took out from his pocket
the decoration which he had found at the theater and Hayden winced.
“Sam,” continued Connor, “has sworn to still more revolting crimes on
your part. Take, for instance, the suit case----”

“It was only filled with quick-lime,” broke in Hayden. “I asked Mrs.
Ward to give it to her son----”

“And to mark the suit case with Mr. Maynard’s initials,” completed
Connor dryly. “Your machinations involved every one you came in contact
with; a scientifically educated criminal is a double menace to public
welfare. Go with Mitchell.”

Hayden stood motionless for one long minute, then with eyes averted he
walked out of the room, his former companions falling back to let him
pass. Mrs. Ward, back in her corner, was startled by Mitchell’s hand on
her shoulder.

“You are to come with us,” he said, and without a backward glance the
housekeeper followed the detective and Hayden from the house.

For a moment after their departure the silence was absolute; then
Maynard, drawing a long breath, faced the Chief of the Secret Service.

“The strain is over,” he said thankfully. “I really thought I had
killed Von Eltz with an accidental overdose of hyoscine until you
announced, Coroner Penfield, that he had died from hydrocyanic acid;
then for the first time I realized he must have penetrated my disguise,
attempted to poison me and inadvertently mixed the glasses and drank
the dose he prepared for me.”

Marian’s low “Thank God!” reached only Mrs. Burnham, and that astute
dame, catching her expression, acted with promptness.

“It’s been a horrible six days,” she confessed, “with every one
suspecting every one else. Evelyn, if you hurry, you can catch the
Society Editors at their office. Tell them to put in the morning
newspapers that _Mr._ and Mrs. Peter Burnham announce your engagement
to Captain René La Montagne and that the marriage will take place next
month.”

“Mother!” Evelyn’s arms flew about her and she gave her a most
undignified hug. “Bless you,” and La Montagne gratefully kissed her
hand; then the two young lovers hurried from the room.

Burnham went up to his wife. “Lillian,” his voice broke. “I haven’t
deserved your faith and your splendid loyalty; but Hayden led me to
believe that I was developing a tendency to homicidal mania; there is
a taint in our family, my uncle died insane. Hayden loaned me books on
poisons, suggested that La Montagne would do me physical injury, and
so worked upon me that I even took underhand methods, such as forging
Evelyn’s name on receipts of La Montagne’s letters and suppressing the
letters from her. I cannot forgive myself for the harm I might have
done.”

“Hush! don’t blame yourself too much, Peter.” Mrs. Burnham colored.
“Dr. Hayden made quite as big a fool of me,” as the memory of her
interview that morning occurred to her. “Must you go, Dr. Penfield?”

“Yes.” The coroner picked up the medicine glass containing prussic
acid. “With your permission, Maynard, I’ll take this for laboratory
examination.”

“Wait for me downstairs, Penfield,” called Chief Connor as the others
started for the door. “Mr. Maynard, you have done fine work; rest
assured no more coded chess problems will go to or come from Germany.
Thanks and congratulations,” and he wrung his hand, bowed to Marian Van
Ness and left the room.

Marian turned to accompany him when Maynard rose from his chair and
detained her.

“Marian.” His always charming voice took its most tender tone. “All is
not said between you and me. Did you mean your brief message on the
back of the chess diagram? It went straight to my heart to have you
say: ‘I need you.’ _Do_ you need me, dear?”

“I--I--” Marian hesitated and her color rose--“I was greatly troubled;
I lost my identification card admitting me to the State Department,
and--and the missing blotter frightened me----”

“Do not fear.” Maynard smiled brightly down at her averted face. “Dr.
Hayden was the thief probably; Siki showed me this morning skeleton
keys of every apartment in the building. However, they were concealed
in Palmer’s room, which led me to believe that Palmer was the traitor.
Let us forget it all.” He caught her hand in his. “Dearest, when I
asked you after your divorce to marry me----”

“Dan--Dan--” she cried, brokenly--“I couldn’t do it--then----”

“And you never answered my letters----”

“I didn’t dare; I was afraid I’d say too much.”

“Say it now,” he pleaded and his whisper, “Sweetheart,” found its echo
on her lips.


THE END




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:


  Italicized text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

  Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

  Inconsistencies in hyphenation have been standardized.

  Archaic or variant spelling has been retained.



